WELCOME
TO THE APRIL 18 MEETING OF THE
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU&apos;RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY A PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE EFFECTIVELY TO
THE FLAG OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA AND TO THE REPUBLIC
FOR WHICH IT STANDS ONE NATION
UNDER GOD, INDIVISIBLE LIBERTY
AND JUSTICE FOR ALL.
WOULD OUR PLEASE CALL THE ROLE
OF COUNSEL FOR YOUR HUSBAND
HERE MARKERS HERE HEAR OUR SONG
HERE GRANT HERE.
THAT&apos;S WHAT WE&apos;RE DOING HERE
TAYLOR HERE BECAUSE MARIAH
CUSTOMER NELSON HERE DOES MY
BREATH HERE BECAUSE WE&apos;RE
ALLOWING ABSENT WE HAVE A IF A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL BORODINO
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER GRANT
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA IN
FAVOR OPPOSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; DO WE HAVE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR?
&gt;&gt; NO, SIR.
THANK YOU.
THEN WE DO HAVE TWO
INTRODUCTIONS TODAY.
FIRST ARAB-AMERICAN HERITAGE
MONTH.
&gt;&gt; COME ON
.
THANK YOU.
SO IT IS A SCOOCH OVER HERE.
YOU KNOW WE ARE IN AUBURN IS
KNOWN FOR FOR MANY THINGS.
WE OF COURSE YOU KNOW IT&apos;S NOT
JUST THE OUTSTANDING MUNICIPAL
SERVICES.
YOU KNOW, WE ARE KNOWN TO FOR
AT OUR CORE FOR OUR VALUES AND
ONE OF OUR FUNDAMENTAL VALUES
OUR FUNDAMENTAL CORE VALUES IS
IS THAT IS THAT IF PLURALISM
AND WELCOMING AND OUR
ENCOURAGEMENT FOR FOR ALL
PERSONS IN ALL COMMUNITIES TO
COME AND AND MAKE AN ARBOR
THEIR HOME AND THERE ARE THERE
ARE NO THERE ARE NO GROUPS
OF PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR
FOR WHOM WE ARE BLESSED TO HAVE
AN ANN ARBOR THAT HAVE NAMED
ANN ARBOR THEIR HOME MORE THAN
THE MEMBERS ARE MEMBERS OF THE
ARAB COMMUNITY, THE
ARAB-AMERICAN COMMUNITY IN ANN
ARBOR IS IS STRONG.
IT IS VIBRANT.
THEY CARE FOR EACH OTHER.
&gt;&gt; THEY CARE FOR OUR CITY AND
THEY CARE FOR THEIR COUNTRY AND
IT IS IT IS MY GREAT PLEASURE
AND I&apos;M DOING SO WITH IN
COLLABORATION WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER OF MALAWI WHO IS
REGRETTABLY NOT HERE TODAY BUT
WHO TOOK IMPORTANT INITIATIVE
TO GET THIS DONE AS WELL TO
AFFECT A PROCLAMATION WITH
RESPECT TO NATIONAL
ARAB-AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH.
IT&apos;S MY PLEASURE TO READ IT
TODAY WHEREAS FOR OVER A
CENTURY ARAB AMERICANS HAVE
BEEN MAKING VALUABLE
CONTRIBUTIONS TO EVERY ASPECT
OF AMERICAN SOCIETY MEDICINE,
LAW, BUSINESS, EDUCATION,
TECHNOLOGY, GOVERNMENT,
MILITARY SERVICE AND CULTURE.
AND WHEREAS SINCE MIGRATING TO
AMERICA MEN AND WOMEN OF ARAB
DESCENT HAD SHARED THEIR RICH
CULTURE AND EDITIONS WITH
NEIGHBORS AND FRIENDS ALSO
SETTING FINE EXAMPLES OF MODEL
CITIZENS AND PUBLIC SERVANTS
AND AS THEY BROUGHT WITH THEM
TO AMERICA THEIR RESILIENT
FAMILY VALUES, STRONG WORK
ETHIC DEDICATED TO EDUCATION,
DIVERSITY AND FAITH AND CREED
THAT HAVE ADDED TO OUR GREAT
DEMOCRACY AND WHEREAS ARAB
AMERICANS HAVE ALSO ENRICHED
OUR SOCIETY BY SHARING IN THE
ENTREPRENEURIAL SPIRIT THAT
MAKES OUR NATION FREE AND
PROSPEROUS AND WHERE AS THE
HISTORY OF ARAB AMERICANS IN
THE UNITED STATES REMAINS
REGRETTABLY NEGLECT AND
OCCASIONALLY DEFACED BY
MISCONCEPTION, BIGOTRY AND HATE
IN THE FORMS OF CRIMES AND
SPEECH.
WHEREAS ARAB-AMERICAN ISSUES
SUCH AS CIVIL RIGHTS
STEREOTYPING BULLYING MUST
BECOME ADDED IN THE FORM
OF EDUCATION AND AWARENESS AND
AS THEY JOIN ALL AMERICANS IN
OUR COMMON DESIRE TO SEE A
PEACEFUL AND DIVERSE SOCIETY
WHERE EVERY INDIVIDUAL IS
TREATED EQUALLY AND FEEL SAFE
AND WHERE HAS THE INCREDIBLE
CONTRIBUTIONS HERITAGE OF ARAB
AMERICANS HAVE HELPED US BUILD
A BETTER NATION NOW THEREFORE I
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR, MAYOR
OF ANN HARBOR, MICHIGAN JOINED
THE ARAB AMERICAN FOUNDATION TO
CELEBRATE THE CONTRIBUTIONS
THAT ARAB AMERICANS HAVE MADE
TO SOCIETY AND HEREBY DECLARE
APRIL 20, APRIL TWENTY TWENTY
TO BE ARAB AMERICAN HERITAGE
MONTH IN THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
AND WE ENCOURAGE ALL COMMUNITY
MEMBERS TO JOIN US IN THE
SPECIAL OBSERVANCE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO HIGH INTEREST
IS WHAT I AM SO EXCITED TO BE
HERE AND TO THANK YOU ON BEHALF
OF THE ARAB AMERICAN FOUNDATION
AND THE COMMUNITY OF YOUR I
WOULD LIKE TO THANK YOU FOR
YOUR ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND SUPPORT
FOR THE DIVERSITY IN OUR CITY
AS AN ARTIST I AM QUOTING FROM
MY PIECE THAT WAS EXHIBITED AT
THE ROCKEFELLER CENTER IN 2020
NAMED TOGETHER WE SHINE AND THE
WORK DEPICTS THE CULTURAL
DIVERSITY AND SHOWS HOW ALL
COLORS ARE EQUALLY IMPORTANT
WHEN THEY ARE TOGETHER THE
COLORS ARE MORE VIBRANT,
BEAUTIFUL AND INTERESTING JUST
AS IT IS IN LIFE.
TOGETHER WE SHINE.
THANK YOU HONORABLE CHRISTOPHER
TAYLOR FOR GIVING THE ARAB
AMERICAN THIS OPPORTUNITY TO
SHINE AND ADD COLOR TO OUR
COMMUNITY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; AH GOOD EVENING AND AGAIN
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVING
US.
I&apos;M NOT FROM ANN ARBOR BUT I
ALWAYS COME TO NO I LIVE IN
PLYMOUTH, MICHIGAN.
MY NAME IS NABILA GHURAYB AND
I&apos;M A BUSINESS CONSULTANT AND I
DO PROJECT MANAGEMENT WORK FOR
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
THROUGHOUT MOST OF WAYNE
COUNTY.
WHAT AN HONOR THIS IS.
WHEN I GOT THE CALL FROM CHRIS
ASKING ME IF I WOULD JOIN HER
IN THIS FABULOUS EFFORT, I
COULDN&apos;T SAY NO.
I&apos;D LIKE TO SHARE JUST A FEW
THINGS THAT IT&apos;S ACTUALLY IT&apos;S
ALL IN THE PROCLAMATION BUT
I&apos;LL ADD A LITTLE BIT TO IT.
THE ARAB AMERICAN FOUNDATION
IT&apos;S A NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION
BASED IN WASHINGTON DC RIGHT
NOW THEY HAVE STARTED THIS IN
TWENTY SEVENTEEN.
THE PURPOSE BEHIND IT IS WE
WANT TO SHARE OUR STORIES.
WE WANT TO SHARE OUR HERITAGE
AND OUR CULTURE.
A LOT OF MY FRIENDS WHO ARE
GREAT FRIENDS, THEY ALWAYS
RECOGNIZE ARAB AMERICANS WITH
THEIR FOOD OR MUSIC WHICH IS NO
DOUBT IS PART OF OUR CULTURE
AND IT&apos;S PART OF OUR HERITAGE.
BUT THERE IS SO MUCH MORE TO
SHARE AND FOR CITIES LIKE THE
ANN ARBOR AND PLYMOUTH AND
OTHER CITIES THROUGHOUT THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN INCLUDING OUR
GOVERNOR, OUR PRESIDENT I&apos;VE
ALL RECOGNIZED APRIL TO BE THE
ARAB AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH.
IT&apos;S NOT JUST AN HONOR BUT IT&apos;S
REALLY A RECOGNITION FOR A LOT
OF ARAB AMERICANS WHO CAME TO
THIS COUNTRY AS IMMIGRANTS.
NOW THEIR CHILDREN ARE BORN
HERE SO THEY&apos;RE JUST AS
AMERICAN AS EVERYONE ELSE.
BUT WE WANTED TO REALLY BE
RECOGNIZED FOR OUR CONTRIBUTION
AND ARAB AMERICANS ARE
HARDWORKING.
I CAN TELL YOU ABOUT MY OWN
FATHER BUT I CAME TO THIS
COUNTRY WHEN I WAS A TEENAGER
AND I STUDIED HERE SO I JUST A
TRUE ARAB-AMERICAN AND GOT
EDUCATED AT WAYNE STATE
UNIVERSITY.
I COULDN&apos;T AFFORD TO COME TO U
OF THEM AND SO I RECEIVED AN
EXCELLENT EDUCATION AND I&apos;M
VERY, VERY PROUD OF MY HERITAGE
AND MY CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY.
SO I WANTED TO THANK YOU ON
BEHALF OF THE FOUNDATION.
BOTH OF US ARE VOLUNTEERS WITH
THE FOUNDATION AND I AM THE
MICHIGAN LEADER SO I WANTED TO
THANK YOU SINCERELY THANK YOU
FOR YOUR TIME SINCERELY THANK
YOU ALL FOR YOUR SUPPORT.
AND WE CONTINUE TO REALLY PROVE
THAT ARAB AMERICANS HAVE A LOT
TO OFFER IN THIS COUNTRY.
SO THANK YOU, SIR.
CAN TAKE A PHOTO
FROM RIGHT
HERE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANKS
.
&gt;&gt; OUR NEXT INTRODUCTION THE
CITY ADMINISTRATORS
PRESENTATION OF THE PROPOSED
FISCAL YEAR.
TWENTY THREE BUDGET MR. DE
HONEY, YOU HAVE THE CON
SORRY.
THAT&apos;S ALL RIGHT.
YOUR COMFORT IS OUR TOP
PRIORITY
FOR
THANK YOU VERY
MUCH MAYOR MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.
I APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
PRESENT OUR PROPOSED FISCAL
YEAR 2003 BUDGET TO YOU THIS
EVENING I FELT IT MORE
APPROPRIATE TO STAND IN FRONT
OF YOU AND START TALKING TO THE
BACK OF YOUR HEADS SO I&apos;M TOLD
I HAVE SOMEONE WHO IS GOING TO
ADVANCE MY SLIDES SO WE COULD
ADVANCE ONE PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE PLAN FOR
THE PRESENTATION THIS EVENING
IS TO GIVE YOU AN OVERVIEW
OF OUR PROPOSED NY 23 BUDGET BY
CHARTER.
THE COUNCIL IS REQUIRED TO
ADOPT THE BUDGET AT THE SECOND
MEETING IN MAY SO IT GIVES US
ROUGHLY A MONTH TO DELIBERATE
THE BUDGET TO ASK QUESTIONS TO
RECEIVE ANSWERS TO PUTS YOU IN
A POSITION TO MAKE AMENDMENTS
WHICH I&apos;M SURE YOU WILL DO AND
TO CAST YOUR BALLOT YOUR VOTE
ON MAY 16TH.
THIS PRESENTATION THIS EVENING
ALONG WITH OUR DOCUMENTS
SUBSEQUENT QUESTIONS THAT MAY
COME FROM COUNCIL MEMBERS
RESPONSES FROM STAFF WILL BE
MADE AVAILABLE ON THE CITY
WEBSITE AS IS OUR COMMON
PRACTICE AS WE MOVE TOWARDS THE
END UP NY TWENTY TWO WE ARE
FORTUNATE ENOUGH TO HAVE A
HEALTHY RESERVE OF SEVENTEEN
PERCENT OF OUR ADJUSTED
EXPENDITURES THAT IS CONSISTENT
WITH CITY POLICY THAT WE
MAINTAIN FUND BALANCE BETWEEN
15 AND 20 PERCENT IN RECENT
MEETINGS YOU HAVE DISCUSSED AND
EXPRESSED THE POLICY DIRECTION
FOR THE RPA FUNDING.
HOWEVER THE ALLOCATIONS WILL
NOT BE PART OF THE PROPOSED
BUDGET.
YOU WILL RECEIVE THAT IN A
SEPARATE BUDGET ACTION THAT
WILL COME AT A LATER DATE.
THIS PROPOSED BUDGET ALSO
CONVERTS SIX TEMPORARY
POSITIONS TO FULL TIME FOR IN
SOLLOWAY CENTA IN PARKS.
THAT TOO IS CONSISTENT WITH
PRIOR COUNCIL EXPRESSION
OF INTENT.
NEXT SLIDE PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE FORTUNATE IN THAT WE
ARE PROJECTING SOME GROWTH
MODEST GROWTH IN THE COMING
YEAR.
THE GENERAL FUND RECURRING
REVENUES ARE PROJECTED TO
INCREASE BY FOUR POINT FIVE
PERCENT PROPERTY TAX RECEIPTS
ARE EXPECTED TO INCREASE FOUR
POINT SIX FIVE PERCENT.
WE ARE PROJECTING AN INCREASE
IN OUR SHARE OF REVENUE SHARING
BY THREE PERCENT AND WHILE WE
CAN&apos;T PUT A NUMBER TO IT, WE DO
EXPECT THAT OUR PARKING
REVENUES IN DOWNTOWN WILL
INCREASE WHAT WE HAVE BEEN
SEEING IN RECENT WEEKS AND
MONTHS IS GROWING LEVEL
OF ACTIVITY IN DOWNTOWN.
WE THINK THAT WILL ONLY
CONTINUE MORE AND MORE PEOPLE
WILL COME TO TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF DOWNTOWN AND WE THINK OUR
PARKING REVENUES WILL GO UP AS
A RESULT.
ADDITIONALLY, WILL WE BE TAKING
A CLOSER LOOK AT OUR RATE
STRUCTURE AROUND LATER THIS
YEAR?
IN ADDITION, WE ARE EXPECTING
ONE MILLION DOLLARS IN A ONE
TIME GRANT FOR FIRE PROTECTION
AND WE ARE ALSO ANTICIPATING
TWO POINT SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS
FROM OUR COMMUNITY MENTAL
HEALTH MILLAGE AND THAT WOULD
BE ALLOCATED ACCORDING TO THE
FORMULA THAT YOU PREVIOUSLY
DETERMINED.
WE ARE PROPOSING SOME UTILITY
RATE HIKES TOTALING TWO POINT
SIX SEVEN PERCENT.
I DO HAVE A SLIDE IN A FEW
MINUTES THAT WILL SHOW YOU MORE
SPECIFICALLY WHAT WE&apos;RE
REFERRING TO
THE TOTAL BUDGET
THAT&apos;S BEING PRESENTED TO US
FIVE HUNDRED TWENTY FOUR POINT
SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS.
THE AREA THAT DRAWS THE MOST
ATTENTION IN ANY CITY IS THE
GENERAL FUND BECAUSE THAT&apos;S
WHERE THE BASIC SERVICES ARE
PAID FOR.
THE PROPOSED GENERAL FUND
BUDGET IS ONE HUNDRED TWENTY
ONE POINT NINE MILLION DOLLARS
AND JUST BY WAY
OF UNDERSTANDING THE
PRESENTATION, I&apos;M NOT GOING TO
STAND HERE AND READ EVERY
NUMBER AND EVERY LINE I&apos;M GOING
TO GIVE YOU A GENERAL SENSE
OF WHAT WE&apos;RE CONVEYING.
THERE&apos;LL BE PLENTY OF TIME TO
TAKE A DEEPER DOVE INTO THE
NUMBERS IN THE COMING WEEKS.
THE PIE CHART THAT YOU SEE ON
THE SLIDE IS A DEPICTION OF ALL
OF THE FUNDS COMBINED AS
INDICATED BEFORE, OUR FUND
BALANCE IS WITHIN CITY POLICY
AND IT&apos;S POSITIVE THAT WE HAVE
A GOLD BOND RATING OF DOUBLE AA
PLUS THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THAT
IS THAT IT&apos;S HELPFUL IF YOU&apos;RE
BOND RATING IS IN THAT RANGE OR
BETTER BECAUSE YOU HAVE MORE
FAVORABLE RATES IF YOU NEED TO
BORROW MONEY THE NEXT SLIDE IS
SIMPLY A DIFFERENT WAY
OF DEPICTING THE 17 PERCENT
FUND BALANCE.
SO I WON&apos;T BELABOR THE POINT.
THERE ARE SEVERAL ONE TIME
FUNDING PRIORITIES.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE MAKING AN ADDITIONAL
INVESTMENT CAPITAL FOR OUR
ELECTRIC VEHICLE TRANSITION OR
ELECTRIC ELECTRIFICATION OF OUR
FLEET.
WE&apos;RE PROPOSING TO REPLACE ONE
OF OUR FIRE ENGINES AT ONE
POINT SIX MILLION DOLLARS.
WE HAVE SEVERAL INVESTMENTS
THAT WE&apos;RE PROPOSING FOR
SUSTAINABILITY FOR THE TEN
THOUSAND TREES INITIATIVE
TRAINING AND THE FEASIBILITY
STUDY ASSOCIATED WITH THE
POSSIBILITY OF A CITY OPERATED
UTILITY.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE ALSO PROPOSING SEVEN
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO BE INVESTED
IN A MASTER PLAN UPDATE THAT IS
BOTH NEEDED AND REQUIRE AND IT
IS TIME FOR US TO BEGIN WORK ON
.
THERE ARE ADDITIONAL PROPOSED
INVESTMENTS FOR THE SUPERIOR
DAM AND ALSO THE GEOLOGICAL
SERVICES ASSOCIATED WITH THE
BARTON PINE.
THE AREA THAT HAS RECEIVED THE
BULK OF ATTENTION SINCE I&apos;VE
COME HERE THE ROADS AND I WANT
TO TAKE A FEW MINUTES TO TALK
ABOUT THE PROPOSED ROAD BOND
INITIATIVE.
I SENT A COMMUNICATION EARLIER
INDICATING THAT OUR FINANCIAL
ADVISORS WERE URGING US TO GO
TO THE MARKET AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE AND BECAUSE OF THAT
YOU WILL HAVE THE BOND
INITIATIVE ON THIS DOCKET
TONIGHT UNDER SEPARATE COVER AS
DFS ONE WHEN WE GET TO IT.
BUT I&apos;M GOING TO MAKE MY
COMMENTS ASSOCIATED WITH THE
BOND INITIATIVE RIGHT NOW WE AS
WE INDICATED TO YOU IN DECEMBER
OF 2001 THAT WE FELT LIKE WE
HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF USING OUR MILLAGE
INSTEAD OF AS CASH BUT TO SERVE
US DEBT SERVICE TO LEVERAGE OUR
ABILITY TO GO FASTER IN
ADDRESSING THE MYRIAD OF STREET
ISSUES THAT WE HAVE.
AND SO WHAT WILL BE IN FRONT
OF YOU TONIGHT IS A FIFTEEN
MILLION TRANSACTION THE WAY WE
SEE THAT UNFOLDING IT WILL TAKE
THE FINANCE DEPARTMENT BETWEEN
45 AND 60 DAYS TO ACTUALLY
EXECUTE A TRANSACTION AND THEN
THERE ARE SEVERAL STEPS THAT WE
WANT TO TAKE SO FIRST I NEED TO
PUT THINGS IN CONTEXT.
THE FBI TWENTY THREE
CONSTRUCTION SEASON IS ALREADY
UNDERWAY.
THE CONTRACTS HAVE BEEN LET SO
THIS BOND IS NOT GOING TO
DRAMATICALLY ALTER WHAT WE&apos;RE
DOING THIS SEASON.
THE BULK OF THE IMPACT WILL
START TO BE FELT DURING THE
FBI.
TWENTY FOUR SEASON PUBLIC
SERVICES IS WORKING ON A
REVISED PAVING SCHEDULE BECAUSE
PEOPLE WANT TO KNOW IF YOU&apos;RE
GOING TO GO FASTER WHICH
STREETS ARE YOU GOING TO DO AND
WHEN ARE YOU GOING TO DO THEM?
BASIC QUESTION WE&apos;RE GOING TO
TRY TO RESPOND TO THAT.
WE BELIEVE THAT WE NEED TO
DEVELOP A COMMUNICATION
STRATEGY AROUND THE INITIATIVE
.
PEOPLE NEED TO KNOW WHEN ROAD
CONSTRUCTION MAY BE COMING
THEIR WAY.
WHAT DOES IT LOOK LIKE IF YOU
HAVE BUSINESSES ALONG A QUARTER
AND THE QUARTER IS GOING TO BE
IMPACTED OVER A PERIOD OF DAYS
OR WEEKS, WE WANT TO LET YOU
KNOW THAT IN ADVANCE.
WE WANT INSTITUTIONS AND
PROPERTY OWNERS TO BE AWARE
OF WHEN WE&apos;RE COMING AND HOW
LONG WILL BE THERE.
THE COMMUNICATION STRATEGY WILL
HELP US ADDRESS THAT.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL ALSO BE LOOKING TO
LEVERAGE THIS INVESTMENT WITH
ADDITIONAL FUNDING FROM VARIOUS
INFRASTRUCTURE.
POTT&apos;S I DON&apos;T KNOW IF WE WILL
BE SUCCESSFUL IN THAT BUT WE
WILL MAKE EVERY EFFORT TO
EXPAND OUR REACH.
WE WILL BE CREATING A DASHBOARD
THAT IS OUTWARD FACING SO THAT
PEOPLE CAN LOOK ON DASHBOARD,
SEE WHERE WE&apos;VE BEEN, SEE WHERE
WE&apos;RE GOING, SEE WHAT STAGE WE
ARE IN TERMS OF THE BOND
INITIATIVE AS WE INDICATED,
THIS WILL UNFOLD OVER A PERIOD
OF THIRTY SIX MONTHS.
WE WILL POST UPDATES TO THE
DASHBOARD AND SO ONCE ALL THESE
THINGS FALL INTO PLACE WE WILL
ACTUALLY HAVE A KICKOFF DATE IF
YOU WILL.
SO PEOPLE KNOW THAT WE&apos;RE
STARTING IT&apos;S HARD TO SPEAK
THROUGH AND ASK BUT I&apos;M DOING
IT.
MAYOR SLVI ADDITIONALLY NEXT
SLIDE PLEASE.
WE HAVE HAD PREVIOUS
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT
A SIDEWALK
CLEARANCE PILOT FOR SNOW
REMOVAL.
WE HAVE INCLUDED THAT IN THE
PROPOSED BUDGET.
WE&apos;VE ALSO INCLUDED REQUESTS
FOR YOUR ONGOING SUPPORT
OF LIVABLE WAGE WHICH WE&apos;VE
STARTED IT TO ENSURE THAT WE
ARE COMPETITIVE IN THE
MARKETPLACE THAT WE ARE THE
EMPLOYER OF CHOICE INSTEAD
OF THE EMPLOYER OF LAST RESORT.
WE HAVE ALREADY STARTED TO SEE
RESULTS FROM THIS CHANGE.
THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE
CHOOSING TO WORK WITH US AND
WHO HAVE CITED SPECIFICALLY OUR
ELEVATION OF THE LIVABLE WAGE
AMOUNT UNDER A SEPARATE
COVER OF THIS AFTERNOON PER
YOUR REQUEST WE HAVE PRESENTED
OUR RECOMMENDATION FOR THE USE
OF THE MARIJUANA FUNDS THAT
DOCUMENT SPELLS OUT OUR
RATIONALE BUT I&apos;LL GIVE YOU
JUST A THUMBNAIL SKETCH.
WE&apos;RE PROPOSING A APPROPRIATING
MONEY FOR FOUR DIFFERENT AREAS
ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND FOR THE
PUBLIC WORKS APPRENTICESHIP
PROGRAM THAT WOULD INTRODUCE
ENTRY LEVEL THAT WOULD
INTRODUCE PEOPLE TO ENTRY LEVEL
PUBLIC WORKS JOBS AT ONE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR
UTILITY SUPPORT FOR RESIDENTIAL
SUPPORT FOR PEOPLE IN NEED.
SEVEN HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
FOR LOW INCOME SUSTAIN MOBILITY
GRANTS.
AND WHILE IT MIGHT NOT SEEM
LIKE IT, THIS ACTUALLY GOES TO
EQUITY IF WE&apos;RE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT MOVING THE COMMUNITY
FORWARD, IF WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT
EMBRACING SUSTAINABILITY BUT WE
LEAVE PEOPLE BEHIND BECAUSE
THEY DON&apos;T HAVE THE FINANCIAL
MEANS TO PARTICIPATE, THEN IT&apos;S
REALLY AN UNEVEN PROPOSITION
AND THAT&apos;S WHY WE MAKE THAT
RECOMMENDATION AND THEN FINALLY
WE PROPOSE TO TAKE THE
REMAINING FUNDS WHICH OR MARTY
AND I GOT TO BE PRECISE HERE
THIRTY FIVE THOUSAND THREE
HUNDRED AND SIXTY SIX DOLLARS
NOT A PENNY MORE FOR A BACKPACK
FOR SCHOOL SUPPLIES, SUPPORT
FOR NEEDY FAMILIES IN THE
STAFFING AREA WE&apos;RE PROPOSING
TO ADD ONE COMMUNITY STANDARDS
OFFICER TO HELP WITH OUR
COVERAGE COMMUNITY WIDE FOR
ENFORCEMENT ONE OUR RECRUIT
HALF OF A POSITION FOR
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
THE OTHER HALF RESTA IN THE
AREA WORKS WITH MISSY.
OUR IDEA FOR THIS HALF FTE IS
TO WORK WITH OUR EMERGENCY
MANAGER TO PREPARE US OR IN
CASE WE DEAL WITH DISASTERS OR
OTHER MUNICIPAL EMERGENCIES.
THERE ARE TWO POSITIONS THAT
WERE LESS THAN FULL TIME HELP
TO EASE IN THE LAW DEPARTMENT.
WE&apos;RE ELEVATING THOSE
EVERYTHING THAT I JUST
MENTIONED FALLS IN THE GENERAL
FUND AND THERE&apos;S ALSO A HANDFUL
OF POSITIONS THE SIX THAT I
MENTIONED PREVIOUSLY THAT WILL
BE COVERED IN NON GENERAL FUND
REVENUE NEXT IS THE UTILITY
RATE PLAN.
SO A BOX ON THE LEFT REFERS TO
THE AVERAGE QUARTERLY
RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER BILL WHICH
TODAY IS TWO HUNDRED FORTY
DOLLARS AND SIXTY FOUR CENTS.
YOU&apos;LL SEE THAT&apos;S BROKEN OUT
FOR WATER, SEWER AND STORM
WATER.
THE BOX ON THE RIGHT IS THE
RIGHT SCHEDULE THAT WE&apos;RE
PROPOSING FOR JULY 1ST.
SO YOU SEE A SLIGHT INCREASE IN
THE WATER RATE THE SEWER
REMAINS FLAT AND A TWO DOLLAR
PLUS INCREASE IN STORM WATER
FOR TOTAL OF TWO HUNDRED FORTY
SIX DOLLARS AND NINETY TWO
CENTS IN THE TABLE AT THE
BOTTOM YOU SEE THAT WE WILL BE
PROPOSING TO HOLD SEWER RATES
FLAT AND FLAT.
TWENTY FOUR AND SIMILAR RATE
INCREASES FOR BOTH WATER AND
STORMWATER.
NEXT SLIDE PLEASE.
AND SO WHAT ARE THE NEXT STEPS
TONIGHT?
YOU&apos;RE GETTING THE BUDGET
OFFICIALLY TRANSMITTED.
THEY&apos;LL BE PUBLIC HEARINGS
FIRST READING FOR PUBLIC
HEARINGS ON THE RIGHT CHANGES
ON MAY THE 5TH WITH WHICH IS A
THURSDAY AND I CAN&apos;T HELP
MYSELF MAYOR THAT&apos;S THURSDAY
OF DERBY WEEK YANDILLA FROM
KENTUCKY SO I HAVE TO POINT
THAT OUT THURSDAY MAY THE 5TH
WILL BE THE NEXT COUNCIL
MEETING.
WE&apos;LL HAVE PUBLIC HEARINGS ON
THE BUDGET AND THE FEE
ADJUSTMENTS NEXT YOU WILL BE
SUBMITTING BUDGET QUESTIONS TO
SARAH WITH COPIES TO MARTY KIM
BUSSEL, MEYER AND MYSELF.
&gt;&gt; THOSE ARE DUE MAY THE 6TH.
WE&apos;RE ASKING FOR A SUBMISSION
OF BUDGET AMENDMENTS BY
WEDNESDAY MAY THE 11TH AND THEN
OF COURSE THE VOTE IS ON MAY
THE 16TH.
NORMALLY WHEN WE GET TO THIS
PART OF THE PRESENTATION WE
WOULD END BUT I PUT IN ONE MORE
SLIDE IF YOU SHOW THAT BECAUSE
WHILE WE&apos;RE GOING TO PUT A LOT
OF ATTENTION INTO THE PRESENT
ACTION, THERE IS A FUTURE FOCUS
THAT I NEED TO POINT OUT THINGS
THAT WE WILL BE WORKING ON,
THINGS THAT WE NEED TO FOCUS ON
IN THE NEAR TERM.
ONE IS OUR ORGANIZATIONAL
ABILITY.
WE NEED ADDITIONAL STABILITY IN
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR&apos;S OFFICE
WHICH WE&apos;RE IN THE PROCESS
OF ADDRESSING.
WE NEED TO GET THE HIRES MADE
FOR THE H.R. AREA FOR THE
DIRECTOR OF ORGANIZATIONAL
EQUITY AND FOR OUR SERVICE AREA
ADMINISTRATOR THE EQUITY AND
INCLUSION DIVIDENDS THAT COMES
AS A RESULT OF ACTION.
SO HIRING A PERSON FOR DTI IS
ONE THING BUT THAT ALONE IS NOT
SUFFICIENT IN ORDER FOR US TO
REALIZE SOME BENEFIT FROM THAT
WE HAVE TO START LOOKING AT
POLICIES AND PRACTICES THAT
THIS GOVERNMENT USES.
ARE THEY EQUITABLE?
ARE THEY INCLUSIVE OR NOT?
WE NEED TO LOOK AT TRAINING.
WE NEED TO LOOK AT ESTABLISHING
EXTERNAL RELATIONSHIPS,
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IS ANOTHER
AREA WHERE WE NEED TO HAVE A
SHARPER FOCUS.
WE NEED TO BE SMOOTHER
INTERNALLY THAN WE CURRENTLY
ARE AND SO WE WANT TO WORK ON
THAT DOWNTOWN IS THE CITY&apos;S
LIVING ROOM.
IT IS A PLACE WHERE LOCALS AND
VISITORS COME FOR SOCIALIZATION
.
WE&apos;VE BEEN PLEASED WITH
INCREASED ACTIVITY.
I THINK THERE&apos;S AN ITEM TONIGHT
ADDRESSING THE NOTION OF A
SOCIAL DISTRICT.
ALL OF THOSE ARE POSITIVE
INDICATORS.
BUT IN ORDER FOR OUR DOWNTOWN
TO MOVE TO THE NEXT LEVEL AS
THEY SAY, WE NEED TO ADDRESS
ROAD.
WE NEED TO ADDRESS CLEANLINESS
PARTICULARLY ON WEEKENDS.
WE NEED TO LOOK AT THINGS LIKE
PUBLIC RESTROOMS.
THOSE ARE THINGS MAKE YOUR
DOWNTOWN A PLACE WHERE FOLKS
WANT TO GO AND RIGHT NOW WE
NEED MORE ATTENTION THERE.
BRAND ELEVATION I WANT TO
ENCOURAGE THE ADMINISTRATION TO
BE BULLISH ON ANN ARBOR AND TO
BE UNAPOLOGETIC ABOUT IT SO WE
NEED MORE PEOPLE BEYOND THIS
REGION TO KNOW ABOUT US TO HEAR
MORE ABOUT US AND TO BECOME
FAMILIAR WITH WHAT ANN ARBOR IS
DOING THAT TAKES INTENTIONAL
ACTIONS.
IT DOES NOT OCCUR BY ITSELF AND
SO WE WANT TO ADVANCE THAT AND
THEN FINALLY TO DO THIS AND
MORE WE WILL NEED TO BROADEN
OUR CAPACITY AS IT RELATES TO
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.
THE PUBLIC WANTS AND HAS A
RIGHT TO BE INVOLVED IN OUR
DELIBERATIONS AND OUR DECISION
MAKING.
WE WANT TO ENCOURAGE THAT RIGHT
NOW WE HAVE LIMITED CAPACITY SO
WE WANT TO SEE WHAT WE CAN DO
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE&apos;RE DOING
THINGS IN A THOUGHTFUL WAY.
WE&apos;RE DOING THINGS IN A MANNER
THAT REACHES DIVERSE AUDIENCES
THAT WE&apos;RE HERE TO SERVE AND
HOPEFULLY THAT WILL OCCUR.
FINALLY, I WANT TO THANK MARTY
FOSHAN THE MEMBERS OF THE
FINANCE DEPARTMENT TO THE LAST
SLIDE PLEASE.
I WANT TO THANK THE STAFF IN
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR&apos;S OFFICE
.
I WANT TO THANK THE EXECUTIVE
TEAM FOR ALL THEIR EFFORTS IN
TRYING TO PUT THIS PROPOSED
BUDGET TOGETHER.
AND I WANT TO THANK THE MEN AND
WOMEN THAT SHOW UP HERE EVERY
DAY WHO HAVE CHOSEN PUBLIC
SERVICE AS THEIR VOCATION.
WE ARE HERE TO SERVE THE
RESIDENTS OF THIS CITY.
IT DOESN&apos;T MATTER WHO THEY ARE
,WHERE THEY ARE.
WE&apos;RE HERE TO SERVE EVERYONE WE
LOOK FORWARD TO YOUR
DELIBERATIONS AND YOUR FINAL
BUDGET VOTE IN MAY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, MR. TONY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU TRULY
.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT.
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
WHAT NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
SPEAKERS AT PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME HAVE THREE MINUTES
IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME THE TIME WILL
NOTIFY YOU WHEN THERE ARE A
COUPLE OF SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR
.
&gt;&gt; OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
JOHN MIRSKY.
GOOD EVENING.
I AM INDEED JOHN MIRSKY AND I
LIVE AT FIVE OR FIVE PERSON
PLACE.
I AM CHAIR OF THE ENERGY
COMMISSION.
I AM A SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVIST
AND I ALSO AM BOARD VICE
PRESIDENT OF A NEW NONPROFIT
SEEKING TO CATALYZE NEW
AFFORDABLE AND WORKFORCE
HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M HERE TONIGHT TO URGE
YOUR SUPPORT FOR DC ONE
RESOLUTION BEFORE YOU WHICH IS
CALLING FOR THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR TO SPONSOR INFORMATION ON
NEIGHBORHOOD ASSISTANCE
CORPORATION OF AMERICA OR NERKA
MORTGAGES TO CITY EMPLOYEES AND
TO RESIDENTS.
THIS RESOLUTION WAS PENNED BY
BRIAN CHAMBERS.
HE IS OUT OF THE COUNTRY SO I
AS HIS SPARRING PARTNER AND
HERE BOTH ON OUR BEHALF AS WELL
AS THOSE WE ARE CONVINCED WILL
BENEFIT FROM PASSAGE OF THIS
RESOLUTION.
WE LAUD YOUR RECENT ACTION TO
SIGNIFICANTLY IMPROVE HOUSING
SUPPLY THROUGH ORDINANCE
CHANGES ENABLING THE
DEVELOPMENT OF AID TO USE
SUPPORTING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT ON CITY OWNED
PROPERTIES THROUGH THE HOUSING
COMMISSION, THE CREATION
OF TRANSIT CORRIDOR ZONING AND
MORE.
FOR THE MOST PART THESE ACTIONS
WILL RESULT IN MORE RENTAL
HOUSING.
HOWEVER, FOR THOSE WHO WANT TO
BUY A HOME AND THEREBY PUT
ROOTS INTO OUR COMMUNITY, BUILD
FAMILY WEALTH AND TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF FEDERAL TAX
INCENTIVES, EASY ACCESS TO
AFFORDABLE FINANCING HAS
REMAINED A SIGNIFICANT BARRIER
AS DETAILED IN THE RESOLUTION
NOKA, A NONPROFIT FIVE ONE SEE
FOR HUD APPROVED HOMEOWNERSHIP
AND ADVOCACY ORGANIZATION,
OFFERS AN EXCELLENT MORTGAGE
PROGRAM WITH THE FOLLOWING
FEATURES.
THE PROGRAM IS OPEN TO THOSE
BELOW THE AREA MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD
INCOME NO DOWN PAYMENT IS
REQUIRED.
THERE ARE NO CLOSING COSTS, NO
MORTGAGE INSURANCE IS NEEDED.
THERE ARE NO CREDIT SCORE
REQUIREMENTS AND INTEREST RATES
ARE AT LEAST A HALF A PERCENT
BELOW THE BEST CONVENTIONAL
MARKET FIXED RATES OFF CAN
FINANCE LOANS FOR SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES MORTGAGES AS HIGH AS FOUR
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY FOUR
THOUSAND DOLLARS MAKING 50
PERCENT OF HOME SALES IN THE
GENERAL PUBLIC SCHOOL DISTRICT
AREA ELIGIBLE FOR NOKA
MORTGAGES.
NOKA HAS ACCESS TO 15 BILLION
DOLLARS OF FINANCING THROUGH
TWENTY TWENTY SEVEN THROUGH THE
BANK OF AMERICA.
UNITED WAY OF WASHTENAW COUNTY
ALREADY PROVIDES PROMOTES
MORTGAGES AND BRIAN IS WORKING
WITH OTHER ENTITIES LIKE THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND
WASHTENAW COUNTY TO ALSO
CHAMPION THE PROGRAM.
I COMMEND BRIAN FOR HIS WORK.
I THINK THE CO-SPONSOR OF THE
RESOLUTION I ASK THAT THE REST
OF YOU JOIN THEM IN APPROVING
RESOLUTION DC ONE.
&gt;&gt; FINALLY I ENCOURAGE ALL
OF YOU TO PROMOTE NOKA
MORTGAGES IN YOUR OWN PERSONAL
COMMUNICATIONS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALAN HABOUR
.
HELLO COUNCIL CITIZENS.
I&apos;M ALAN HABOUR.
I LIVE ON THIRD STREET AND I&apos;VE
BEEN LONG ASSOCIATED WITH THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE CENTER
OF THE CITY AND I SENT YOU AN
INVITATION TO THE FORTHCOMING
EARTH DAY CELEBRATION.
YOU&apos;RE GETTING NEXT THURSDAY
AND THEN ON FRIDAY THE ACTUAL
THURSDAY, APRIL 22 AND SATURDAY
AND SUNDAY.
AND WE HAVE A VERY INTERESTING
ENGAGING PROGRAM TRYING TO MAKE
THE CENTER OF THE CITY A PLACE
OF GATHERING OF SERIOUS
CONSIDERATION OF IF INDEED THE
CENTER OF THE CITY THE CLIMATE
QUESTIONS THAT EARTH DAY
TOUCHES ARE SO URGENT AND WELL
ANN ARBOR HAS AN EXTRAORDINARY
,YOU KNOW, FORTHRIGHT PROGRAM
TOWARD CARBON NEUTRALITY BY
2030 THE NEEDS ARE FAR GREATER
AND AN OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE
TO CONSULT AND TALK WITH ONE
ANOTHER ABOUT THESE NEEDS IS
PART OF WHAT THE EARTH DAY IS
ABOUT.
IT&apos;S ALSO ABOUT OUR COMMUNITY
GATHERING AND WE HAVE SOME
GREAT BANDS AND WE&apos;RE BLESSED
THAT WAY.
SOCIETY AND OUR VERY FAMILIAR
VOICE WILL BE THERE TO INSPIRE
PETER LINVILLE, A GREAT
HISTORIAN OF THE COMMONS WILL
ALSO BE THERE SO WE ARE TRYING
AS WELL TO INVITE MANY
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS THAT
ARE ALL DOING THEIR BIT FOR
WHAT WE CALL THE GREEN BRICK
ROAD TO SUSTAINABLE AND
SURVIVAL.
THERE ARE SO MANY GROUPS
WORKING ON HOW WE SEE THAT THIS
WORK ALL NEEDS TO BE IN
COOPERATION AND THAT WE ARE
WORKING TOGETHER.
SO I&apos;M HERE PERSONALLY TO GIVE
INVITATION AND I SENT YOU ALL
IN THE EMAIL THAT THIS CAN BE A
FEW DAYS OF COMMUNITY GATHERING
OF SERIOUS CONVERSATION ABOUT
THE POLITICS OF THE CITY, THE
COMMONS THAT CAN INVITE
PARTICIPATION AND AGAIN TO
INVITE THE WHOLE COMMUNITY AND
I HOPE THAT YOU WILL SHARE THE
INVITATION YOU GOT WITH YOUR
OWN FRIENDS AND FAMILY AND SEE
THAT THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
THE CENTER OF THE CITY TO BE
THAT GATHERING PLACE THAT WAS
FORESEEN AND THE PROPOSAL TO
MAKE THIS CENTER OF THE CITY A
COMMUNITY COMMONS.
SO THAT IS MY MESSAGE.
I WANTED TO COME DELIVER IT
PERSONALLY AS WELL AS THROUGH
THE EMAIL AND I HOPE YOU WILL
CARRY IT ON FORWARD AND THANK
YOU VERY MUCH, MAYOR.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TEACHER
BERTEN
HELLO.
MY NAME IS TEACHER BARTON AND I
CURRENTLY LIVE IN WARD FOUR AS
A TAXPAYING PROPERTY OWNER,
NATIVE SON OF ANN ARBOR WHO
RECEIVED HIS EAGLE GOD AWARD BY
WORKING WITH YOU HERE ON RIVER
WATERSHED COUNCIL.
I&apos;M HERE TODAY TO ASK THE CITY
OF THAT HARBOR COUNCIL TO ACT
ON AN UNRESOLVED ONGOING PUBLIC
CONCERN.
OVER A YEAR AGO I REQUESTED THE
RELEASE OF THE ABBOT POLICE
DEPARTMENT&apos;S POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES WITH REASONABLE
EXCEPTION FOR PUBLICLY
ACCESSIBLE VIEWING.
AFTER APPEALING THE COMPLETE
DENIAL OF MY FOI REQUEST, I WAS
GIVEN FORTY THREE POLICIES
SPECIFICALLY NAMED IN MY APPEAL
AND INFORMED WOULD TAKE A TOTAL
OF NINETEEN POINT SEVENTY FIVE
HOURS AND SEVEN HUNDRED EIGHTY
SIX DOLLARS TO REVIEW AND
RELEASE THE REMAINING POLICIES
AND PROCEDURES OF THE ENTIRE
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
SINCE THEN I&apos;VE BEEN TRYING TO
HAVE THOSE PUBLIC DOCUMENTS
POSTED AMONG THE OTHER POLICIES
ACCESSIBLE ON THE HARBOR CITY
POLICE DEPARTMENT WEBSITE
THROUGH EMAIL EXCHANGE WITH
CITY REPRESENTATIVES.
IT WAS CONFIRMED THAT OUR
POLICE WOULD RELEASE AND POST
ON THEIR WEBSITE TEN OR TWENTY
POLICIES PER MONTH STARTING
OCTOBER TWENTY TWENTY ONE SO
FAR THE ENTIRE HAS FAILED TO
MEET THIS COMMITMENT OVER THE
COURSE OF THE LAST YEAR I HAVE
MADE MULTIPLE MONTH LONG
REPEATED ATTEMPTS TO ESTABLISH
COMMUNICATION WITH MY CITY
THROUGH MY REPRESENTATIVES ON
THIS COUNCIL THE MAYOR, VARIOUS
CITY EMPLOYEES AND MULTIPLE
LEVELS AND MEMBERS OF THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
NONE OF MY ATTEMPTS HAVE COME
TO ANY FRUITION OR RESOLUTION
OF THIS ISSUE.
THE LACK OF COMMUNICATION FROM
THE VARIOUS ASPECTS OF MY CITY
REQUIRES ME NOW TO ADDRESS THIS
IN A PUBLIC FORUM AS THE ONLY
VIABLE MEANS OF ENSURED
COMMUNICATION.
HERE&apos;S MY CONCERN A DOCUMENT
RELEASED BY THE NRA PLEASE
SHOWS A MINIMUM OF ONE HOUR PER
MONTH OF WORK WOULD ALLOW THE
POLICE TO MEET THE BARE MINIMUM
REQUIREMENTS OF POSTING TEN
POLICIES PER MONTH.
WHY HAS THE CITY OF ENDEAVOR
POLICE DEPARTMENT FAILED TO
MEET THE COMMITMENT OF POSTING
TEN TO TWENTY POLICIES ON THEIR
WEBSITE PER MONTH WHEN THE
TOTAL AMOUNT TIME REQUIRED FOR
THE ENTIRE PROCESS IS LESS THAN
TWENTY HOURS AND WAS STARTED
OVER SIX MONTHS AGO?
MY REQUEST IS TO HAVE THIS
COUNCIL AN ACTIVE MEASURE TO
ENSURE THE NEVER PLEASE START
AND FOLLOW THROUGH ON A NOTE
OF ACTION TO RESOLVE THIS
ONGOING AND UNFULFILLED
COMMITMENT WITHIN A MEASURABLE
AND REASONABLE TIME FRAME.
THE CIVILIAN OVERSIGHT
COMMITTEE OF THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT&apos;S CHARTER DOES NOT
COVER FOIA REQUESTS AND
THEREFORE IS NOT AN OPTION TO
ADDRESS THIS CONCERN I HAVE
ALREADY ATTEMPTED TO RESOLVE
THIS ISSUE THROUGH THAT
CIVILIAN OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.
I AM ASKING THIS REPRESENTATIVE
BODY TO TAKE IMMEDIATE ACTION
TO ENSURE THAT THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT FULFILL OUR
COMMITMENT POST IN TEN OR
TWENTY POLICIES PER MONTH WHICH
REQUIRES LESS THAN ONE HOUR
OF WORK PER MONTH WITH THE
TOTAL TIME TO COMPLETE THE
ENTIRE TASK OF NINETEEN POINT
SEVENTY FIVE HOURS.
THEY CAN START WITH POLICIES
ZERO ZERO ONE DASH ZERO ONE
ZERO AND ALL THE OTHER
REMAINING POLICIES RELEASED TO
ME OVER A YEAR AGO.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LAFFITE
GALLIMORE
.
WELL GREETINGS TO THE MAYOR,
THE CITY COUNCIL AND TO MY
FELLOW CITIZENS WHO ARE PRESENT
EXCUSE ME WHO ARE PRESENT HERE
TONIGHT.
MY NAME IS LAFITTE&apos;S GALLIMORE
AND I LIVE AT THIRTY ONE THIRTY
NINE PLYMOUTH ROAD.
I HAVE APPEARED BEFORE THIS
BEFORE TO SHARE MY CONCERNS
WITH THE WELFARE OF THE BLACK
COMMUNITY.
IN HOUR I CAME TO THIS
COMMUNITY IN NINETEEN SEVENTY
ONE AS A STUDENT AT THE TIME
THERE WAS A FAIRLY ACTIVE BLACK
COMMUNITY HERE.
AS A MATTER OF FACT THE BLACK
COMMUNITY WAS THE SECOND
LARGEST POPULATION GROUP HERE
AND THAT IT IS THE THIRD
LARGEST POPULATION AND WITHIN
FIVE YEARS IT WILL PROBABLY BE
THE FOURTH IF NOT THE FIFTH
LARGEST POPULATION GROUP IF I
RECALL CORRECTLY THE EMPLOYMENT
OF BLACKS SAY THAT OBVIOUSLY
THE WHOLE IS ABOUT 15 PERCENT
.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT IT IS TODAY
BUT I CAN ONLY GUESS THAT IT IS
NOT NEARLY THAT FIGURE IS I
DRIVE AROUND AN HOUR WITH ALL
OF THE CONSTRUCTION GOING ON I
HARDLY SEE ANY BLACK
CONSTRUCTION WORKERS ON THESE
PROJECTS.
WHEN I CAME HERE THE
ACHIEVEMENT GAP WAS A BIG ISSUE
AND IT STILL IS A BIG ISSUE.
BUT I WHEN I CAME HERE THE
NUMBER OF BLACKS TO THAT YOU
HAVE HOVERED AROUND SEVEN OR
SEVEN PERCENT ACCORDING TO DATA
USA CURRENTLY FIFTY TWO POINT
TWO PERCENT OF THE STUDENT
POPULATION IS WHITE AND FOUR
PERCENT BLACK ASIAN STUDENTS
MAKE UP THIRTEEN PERCENT OF THE
POPULATION, TRIPLING THE NUMBER
OF BLACK STUDENTS AT THE
UNIVERSITY DENHA OF PUBLIC
SCHOOL RANKS FIFTH IN THE
NATION ABOUT PERSUED.
YET WE CONTINUE TO STRUGGLE
WITH AN ACHIEVEMENT GAP.
IF WE WERE TO DO A LITTLE
STATISTICAL REGRESSION ANALYSIS
,THE RESULTS WOULD SHOW THAT
BLACKS HAVE NOT MADE ANY
PROGRESS IN THIS COMMUNITY IN
TERMS OF THE QUALITY OF LIFE.
AS A MATTER OF FACT WHY YOU ARE
WHITE YOU MAKE THE ARGUMENT
THAT BLACKS HAVE ACTUALLY
REGRESSED FROM THE TIME THAT I
THAT I AND MANY OTHERS CAME TO
THIS COMMUNITY.
YET OTHER POPULATION GROUPS
HAVE RISE FRIED.
HAS ANYONE EVER BILATERAL THIS
DEVELOPMENT YET THERE THERE IS
ONE INITIATIVE ANOTHER A WASTE
A WASTE OF TAXPAYERS MONEY
WHERE THERE IS NO
ACCOUNTABILITY, THERE&apos;S THE
RESPONSIBILITY RESULTING IN NO
PROGRESS.
IT IS TIME TO STOP THESE PUBLIC
RELATIONS WHEN ADDRESSING
INITIATIVES AND FOCUS ON
CORRECTING SOME OF THESE
DEFICIENCIES.
AND AS I SAID EARLIER, I MADE
THIS PRESENTATION BEFORE THE
CITY COUNCIL BEFORE I TO
CONTACT MY COUNCIL
REPRESENTATIVE TO SPEAK ON
BEHALF OF SOME OF THE BLACKS TO
LIVE IN THE COMMUNITY WHERE I
LIVE AND THAT PERSON DOES NOT
RETURN TELEPHONE CALLS AND HAS
REFUSED TO SIT DOWN AND HAVE A
CONVERSATION ABOUT THE ISSUES
THAT CONCERN TO BLACKS THAT
LIVE IN HER DISTRICT.
SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE THIS
STATEMENT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS IN GARCA
BEFORE THE TIME STARTS.
HOW WILL I KNOW THE RESPONSE I
GET FROM MY PRESENTATION?
DO I GET ANYTHING WRITTEN OR
ANY KIND OF RESPONSE?
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S TYPICALLY NO WRITTEN
OR VERBAL RESPONSE.
OK, HELLO MY NAME IS ANN GARCIA
.
I&apos;VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR FOR
ABOUT THIRTY TWO YEARS NOW.
I&apos;M ORIGINALLY FROM CALIFORNIA
.
I AM A TEACHER.
I TAUGHT AT MICHIGAN FOR TEN
YEARS AND I TAUGHT COLLEGE FOR
ALMOST 20 YEARS RECENTLY
RETIRED BUT STILL GOING STRONG.
&gt;&gt; HAPPY TO REPORT I AM VERY
SAD WHEN I SEE THE TITLE OF THE
PRESENT THAT I&apos;M MAKING RIGHT
NOW BECAUSE IT IMPLIES THAT I
MYSELF AM EAGER TO HAVE
ANTISEMITISM BE PART OF THIS
SPIRIT OF ANN ARBOR.
THAT&apos;S A VERY, VERY FAR CRY
FROM MY POSITION.
I HAPPEN TO BE JEWISH.
MY GRANDFATHER WHO PASSED AWAY
A WHILE AGO WOULD BE VERY SAD
TO THINK THAT I WAS OPPOSED TO
THE JEWISH PEOPLE.
&gt;&gt; WE HAD WAY TOO MANY PASSOVER
SEDERS FOR THAT TO HAPPEN.
WHAT I DID WANT TO SAY WAS THAT
THE THE WORK THAT&apos;S BEEN DONE
FOR ALL THIS TIME AND I KIND
OF CALL IT WORK WHERE PEOPLE
WERE PROTESTING IN FRONT OF THE
SYNAGOGUE LOOKS ABHORRENT TO
YOU AND I CAN SEE WHY IT LOOKS
IMPORTANT TO YOU.
I HAVE ARGUED AND ARGUED AND
ARGUED WITH THE PEOPLE THERE
THAT THE MESSAGE A LOT OF US
WOULD LIKE TO GET ACROSS TO
AMERICA IN GENERAL IS NOT
GETTING ACROSS BY THE BY THE
METHODS THEY&apos;VE CHOSEN IT IT
MAKES PEOPLE ANGRY.
IT MAKES PEOPLE UPSET.
IT LOOKS LIKE PEOPLE ARE
OPPOSED TO JUDAISM EVEN THOUGH
MOST OF THE PROTESTERS
THEMSELVES ARE JEWISH.
A LOT OF YOU ARE A LOT YOUNGER
THAN ME AND NEWER THAN I EVEN
TO ANN ARBOR.
SO YOU MAY NOT KNOW THAT WHEN
THEY FIRST STARTED THAT PROTEST
A LONG TIME AGO THEY ASKED THAT
THEY BE ABLE TO SPEAK FOLLOWING
A VISIT TO PALESTINE.
THEY WANTED TO SAY WHAT THEY
HAD SEEN.
I DON&apos;T KNOW THE INS AND OUTS
OF HOW THAT REQUEST WAS PUT
FORWARD.
I HEARD SOMETHING ABOUT THE
FACT THAT THE RABBI AT THE TIME
SAID THERE WOULD HAVE TO BE AN
OPPOSITIONAL PRESENTATION AT
THE SAME TIME I THINK IT WOULD
HAVE BEEN FAIR TO JUST LET HIM
GO UP THERE, GIVE HIS POWER
POINTS IN THE PAST SIX YEARS
OF MISERY MIGHT NOT HAVE BEEN
EXPERIENCED.
I I RECOGNIZE THAT IT IS REALLY
HORRIBLE FOR PEOPLE TO WALK
INTO A TEMPLE AND HAVE TO GO
THROUGH THOSE PROTESTERS BUT I
DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S AS HORRIBLE AS
WHAT&apos;S HAPPENED IN THE PAST
WEEK WHEN PALESTINIANS AT THE
TEMPLE MOUNT WERE KILLED SIX
SEVEN WERE KILLED.
A LITTLE BOY WAS HURT BY
POLICEMEN AND BY JEWISH
SETTLERS.
SO I THINK THAT MIGHT BE A
WORSE EXPERIENCE THAN JUST
HAVING TO WALK BY PEOPLE WITH
SIGNS.
AND NOW LET ME TURN TO WHAT I
WOULD ARGUE.
EPISTEMOLOGY IS THE STUDY
OF KNOWLEDGE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M A PSYCHOLOGIST AND I
TEACH SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY AND I
REALLY WANT TO KNOW HOW EACH
OF YOU HAVE COME TO FORM YOUR
OPINION OF WHAT IS HAPPENING.
AS A JEWISH WOMAN I FORMED MY
OPINION BY LISTENING TO MY
GRANDFATHER UNTIL THE DAY I
READ A BOOK AND UNTIL THE DAY I
WATCHED A FILM AND UNTIL THE
DAY I WENT TO PALESTINE AND ALL
OF A SUDDEN EVERYTHING I HAD
KNOWN FOR FORTY FIVE FIFTY
YEARS WAS TURNED ON ITS HEAD.
I OFFER TO YOU THAT EVERYTHING
YOU MIGHT THINK YOU KNOW ABOUT
THE JUDY ABOUT ISRAEL AND
PALESTINE MIGHT GET TURNED ON
ITS HEAD IF YOU ALLOW THERE TO
BE AN OPEN DISCUSSION ON THIS
TOPIC.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS IAN
ROBINSON.
IAN ROBINSON ROBINSON IS ON THE
PHONE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
YES.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
CAN YOU HEAR ME ALL RIGHT?
YES, WE CAN.
RIGHT.
BASED ON IAN ROBINSON, I LIVE
AT THIRTY FOUR THIRTY FIVE
REDWOOD COURT AND I&apos;M SPEAKING
TONIGHT IN MY CAPACITY AS THE
PRESIDENT OF THE GRANDE VALLEY
AREA LABOR FEDERATION AFL-CIO.
WE REPRESENT ABOUT EIGHTEEN
THOUSAND UNION MEMBERS IN FOUR
COUNTIES INCLUDING FROM VALLEY
AREA LABOR FEDERATION LEADERS
MET WITH WASHINGTON RYLES
OF NASCAR AND BRIAN CHAMBERS IN
JANUARY OF THIS YEAR TO HEAR
MORE ABOUT THE LACK ON
MORTGAGES OPPORTUNITIES AND WE
WERE VERY IMPRESSED AS THEY
EXPLAINED THE KINDS OF BURDENS
ON WHICH IT&apos;S POSSIBLE TO
BORROW UNDER THE SYSTEM THAT
THEY ADMINISTER.
WE WERE SO IMPRESSED WE DECIDED
THAT IT WOULD BE USEFUL FOR
WASHINGTON OUT AND A COLLEAGUE
FROM NAPA TO COME TO OUR
MONTHLY DELEGATE MEETING IN
FEBRUARY OF THIS YEAR AND
EXPLAIN HOW THEIR SYSTEM WORKS
TO OUR DELEGATES.
WE THE DELEGATES WERE SIMILARLY
IMPRESSED AND HAVE BEEN
COMMUNICATING DETAILS OF HOW
THIS APPROACH WORKS TO THEIR
MEMBERS.
SO THAT&apos;S A VERY GOOD WAY
OF GETTING WORD OUT ABOUT THE
EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR
AFFORDABLE SUSTAINABLE
HOMEOWNERSHIP AND NOCCO
FACILITATES TO A SIGNIFICANT
PART OF THE POPULATION OF THE
COUNTY.
BUT OF COURSE IT WOULD BE SUPER
IF THIS ORGANIZATION OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR WERE TO USE
ITS TOOLS AND CONNECTIONS TO
SHARE THAT INFORMATION NOT ONLY
WITH ITS OWN EMPLOYEES BUT AS
THE RESOLUTION THE DC ONE
INDICATES TO ALSO RESIDENTS
OF ANN ARBOR.
SO WE URGE YOU TO DO THAT.
WE STAND VERY MUCH IN SUPPORT
OF THIS RESOLUTION.
WE HAVE BEEN INCREASINGLY
PUSHING FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AS A HIGH PRIORITY OF THE LABOR
MOVEMENT IN OUR AREA FOR
SEVERAL YEARS NOW AND WE
RECOGNIZE THAT MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL OF THE PEOPLE LIVING IN
OUR CITY ARE RENTERS RATHER
THAN OWNERS AND THAT REALLY WE
CANNOT SOLVE THE PROBLEM
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING WITHOUT
TAKING IMPORTANT MEASURES TO
ADDRESS AFFORDABILITY ON THE
RENTAL SIDE OF THE EQUATION.
AND THAT SAID, WE ALSO NEED TO
RECOGNIZE THAT WE CAN IF WE CAN
TAKE SOME PEOPLE OUT OF THE
RENTING POOL AND PUT THEM INTO
HOMES AND MAKE HOMES FOR THOSE
WHO ALREADY HAVE HOMES MORE
AFFORDABLE.
THAT IS A MAJOR PIECE ALSO
OF THE LARGER CHALLENGE
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN OUR
CITY.
AND IF WE CAN SOLVE IT IN THE
CITY, WE CAN ALSO MAKE A HUGE
POSITIVE IMPACT ON THE COUNTY.
AND SO FOR THESE REASONS AND
PROBABLY MORE THAT I HAVE NO
TIME TO PROVIDE TO YOU, WE URGE
YOU ALL TO SUPPORT THIS
RESOLUTION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL HOUSE MEMBER
BRINGS THANK YOU.
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY COMMENTS SO
MUCH ON BEHALF OF MYSELF BUT I
REACHED OUT TO A COUNCIL MEMBER
ON MAUI WHO WAS NOT ABLE TO
MAKE IT AS MY COLLEAGUE IN THE
FIFTH WARD TO SEE IF THERE WAS
ANYTHING THAT HE WANTED TO
SHARE.
HE JUST WANTED TO EXTEND HIS
GRATITUDE TO THOSE WHO FROM THE
AMERICAN FOUNDATION WHO ARE
HERE TONIGHT TO ACCEPT THE
RESOLUTION AND EXPRESS HIS
APPRECIATION AS WELL.
COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER.
&gt;&gt; THANKS, MR. MAYOR.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
JUST A COUPLE OF QUICK
ANNOUNCEMENTS.
YEAH.
I WANT TO SEND A
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE SKYLINE
ROBOTICS TEAM WHO CAME IN
SECOND PLACE TO THE STATES THIS
WEEKEND AND THEY&apos;RE GOING TO BE
GOING TO THE WORLD
CHAMPIONSHIPS IN HOUSTON.
I WAS A ROBOTICS MENTOR FOR
FOUR YEARS AT A COMMUNITY AND
IT&apos;S A GREAT PROGRAM AND WE
HAVE A LOT OF SUCCESS HERE IN
OUR COMMUNITY AND A LOT OF A
LOT OF A LOT OF THINGS ARE
BEING LEARNED AND A LOT
OF EXCITEMENT AROUND THAT EVENT
AND SO CONGRATULATIONS SKYLINE
ROBOTICS THAT&apos;S TEAM 33 22.
SECONDLY, THERE WAS A REALLY
INTERESTING ARTICLE IN THE
DAILY BEAST WHICH I GUESS IS AN
ONLINE SORT OF NEWS AGGREGATOR
OR SOMETHING.
I&apos;M NOT EXACTLY SURE WHAT IT IS
BUT ANYWAY THEY HAD AN ARTICLE
ABOUT FAKE CONCORD PYNES AND
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S INTERESTING THAT
THIS IS GETTING SOME NATIONAL
PRESS ATTENTION AND YOU KNOW,
IT IT HAS SORT OF BEEN AN
AGGREGATION OF THESE TYPES
OF THINGS.
THERE WAS AN ARTICLE IN NEW
YORKER THIS WEEK THAT REFERRED
BACK TO THE FAMOUS QUESTION
SHOULD TREES HAVE STANDING
AND
TOWARDS LEGAL RIGHTS FOR
NATURAL OBJECTS?
AND I OF COURSE BELIEVE THAT
THEY SHOULD AND I BELIEVE THAT
NATURAL OBJECTS AND NATURAL
CAPITAL IS NOT BEING CONSIDERED
PROPERLY IN OUR COMMUNITY.
SO I WAS HAPPY TO SPEAK WITH
THE REPORTER ABOUT THAT AND I
WANTED TO COMMENT ON THE
RESIDENT WHO&apos;S KIND OF DOING
THE HEAVY HEAVY LIFTING TRYING
TO GET APD TO PUBLISH THEIR
POLICIES AND WE&apos;VE HAD YOU
KNOW, THEY GOT THERE OUR OUR
LAW ENFORCEMENT HAS THEIR HANDS
FULL.
THEY&apos;RE THERE.
I WOULD CONSIDER THEM TO BE
UNDERSTAFF AND I WOULD SUGGEST
THAT THE COMMAND STAFF WOULD
AGREE WITH THAT.
AND SO I I&apos;M NOT GOING TO MAKE
EXCUSES FOR ANYBODY BUT I THINK
THEY&apos;RE DOING A YOU KNOW, A
REASONABLE EFFORT TO PUBLISH
THESE POLICIES THAT HAVE HAD A
LOT OF CORRESPONDENCE GOING
BACK AND FORTH WITH THE POLICE
AND WITH THE PERSON WHO SPOKE
HERE EARLIER ABOUT THAT.
AND I HOPE THAT THEY CAN
CONTINUE ON PUBLISHING THESE
POLICIES PROCEDURES AND WILL BE
NECESSARY TO BRING A RESOLUTION
KIND OF URGING THEM TO DO SO
MORE QUICKLY.
I I KNOW THAT THEY&apos;RE ALL BEING
REVIEWED BY OUR NEW CHIEF AND
RELATIVELY NEW CHIEF AND YOU
KNOW, THAT&apos;S PART OF IT IS
PUTTING THE RIGHT STUFF OUT
THERE AND SO I APPRECIATE THAT
THAT COUNCIL MEMBER NEIGHBOR
HAS DONE THAT.
AND FINALLY I JUST WANT TO SAY
FREE PALESTINE COUNCIL MEMBER
GRANT THANK YOU.
I THINK TO ENCOURAGE RESIDENTS
OF ALL AGES TO TAKE SOME TIME
AND GIVE INPUT ON OUR PARKS AND
RECREATION OPEN SPACE PLAN,
THIS IS AN EFFORT THAT WE
UNDERGO EVERY FIVE YEARS AND
PARKS REALLY DOES TAKE A LOT
OF THIS PUBLIC INPUT AND
PROCESS INTO ACCOUNT.
WE HAVE TENDED AND HAVE BEEN
HISTORICALLY UNDERREPRESENTED
WITH OUR YOUNGER RESIDENTS SO
ESPECIALLY IF THAT&apos;S YOU,
PLEASE TAKE SOME TIME AND LET
US KNOW.
I&apos;VE ALSO JUST HEARD SOME
FEEDBACK IN THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
WHAT IS AND WHAT&apos;S NOT ON THAT
SURVEY AND JUST BECAUSE YOU
LIKE SOMETHING OR DON&apos;T LIKE
SOMETHING IT DOESN&apos;T MEAN THAT
IT SHOULD OR SHOULD NOT BE ON
THE SURVEY WE WELCOME OPINIONS
THAT ARE BOTH PRO AND CON AND
WE REALLY DO WANT TO GET INPUT
ABOUT WHERE YOU THINK
INVESTMENT SHOULD BE MADE IN
OUR PARKS AS WELL AS YOUR OTHER
PRIORITIES.
SO THANK YOU FOR THOSE YOU&apos;VE
DONE AND IF YOU GO RIGHT ONTO
THE FRONT PAGE OF THE CITY&apos;S
WEBSITE YOU CAN FIND THAT LINK
TO THE SURVEY AS WELL AS SOME
OTHER OPPORTUNITIES FOR PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT.
&gt;&gt; THANKS COUNCILMAN BRITISH I
WANTED TO ECHO SOME OF THE
THINGS THAT MR HABOUR SAID AND
TELL EVERYONE THAT THERE WILL
BE A FOUR DAY CELEBRATION
OF EARTH DAY AT THE CITY CENTER
COMMONS LIBRARY AND IT WILL
BEGIN AT NOON EVERY DAY
STARTING THURSDAY.
&gt;&gt; HIGHLIGHTS OF THE
CELEBRATION INCLUDE A
DISCUSSION OF WHAT EARTH DAY
MEANS TO ME AND YOU CAN ANSWER
THAT QUESTION BY JUST GOING TO
THEIR WEBSITE AND WRITING A
COUPLE OF SENTENCES AND YOUR
ANSWER MIGHT BE READ ALOUD OR
MAYBE THEY ALL WILL THERE WILL
BE A CANDIDATES DISCUSSION AT
ONE P.M. ON FRIDAY.
THERE WILL BE SPEAKERS FROM THE
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION AT FOUR ON SATURDAY
AND I AM HONORED TO BE
SCHEDULED IN WITH THAT GROUP TO
AND THERE WILL BE LOTS OF MUSIC
AND DRUMMING EVERY DAY IN
ADDITION, YOU CAN CELEBRATE THE
GRAND REOPENING OF LESSLIE
SCIENCE AND NATURE CENTER AND
CELEBRATE EARTH DAY ON SUNDAY
FROM ONE TO FOUR THIRTY P.M.
WITH A ZERO WASTE FESTIVE AND
AN ALL SPECIES PARADE AMONG
OTHER THINGS AND YOU CAN COME
DRESSED AS YOUR FAVORITE
SPECIES.
AND FINALLY I WANT TO CALL
EVERYONE&apos;S ATTENTION TO THE
FEATURE PRESENTATION FROM THE
HURON RIVER WATERSHED COUNCIL
THAT IS ON OUR AGENDA TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT ACTUALLY GOING TO
PHYSICALLY HAPPEN BUT IT&apos;S BEEN
ATTACHED TO THE AGENDA AND IT
IS A PRESENTATION BY THE
AQUATIC ECOLOGIST DR PAUL STEEN
REGARDING WHAT WE NEED TO DO TO
PROTECT OUR WATERSHED COUNCIL
MEMBER NELSON, THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO LET EVERYBODY
KNOW THAT THERE IS A MEETING
WEBINAR FROM ANAMBRA PUBLIC
POWER.
THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE A THIS IS
THIS THURSDAY AT SEVEN PM IT&apos;S
GOING TO FEATURE
REPRESENTATIVES FROM MAIN
BURLINGTON, VERMONT AND THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC POWER
ASSOCIATION.
YOU CAN FIND INFORMATION ABOUT
THAT MEETING AT ANN ARBOR
PUBLIC POWERGRID.
IT&apos;S A WEBINAR THAT YOU HAVE TO
REGISTER FOR IN ADVANCE.
THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBER A
DENHA.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, MAYOR.
JUST VERY BRIEFLY, I KNOW THAT
A NUMBER OF THE COMMISSIONS
THAT I SERVE AS LIAISON TO ARE
EXPERIENCING SOME VACANCIES OR
HAVE VACANCIES COMING UP.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO REMIND
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY THAT
THEY SHOULD APPLY FOR BOARDS
AND COMMISSIONS THAT THEY WOULD
LIKE TO SERVE ON SO THAT WE CAN
CONTINUE TO HAVE GOOD ROBUST
DISCUSSION AT THOSE MEETINGS
AND DIVERSE PERSPECTIVES AT THE
TABLE.
SO PLEASE TAKE SOME TIME AND
LOOK THE VACANCIES THAT MIGHT
BE COMING UP AND APPLY IF YOU
ARE INTERESTED IN SERVING
COUNCIL MEMBER GRISWOLD.
&gt;&gt; FIRST I WANT TO MENTION THAT
IT WAS ONE YEAR AGO THAT THE
GOVERNOR AUTHORIZED THE EPA TO
COME IN TO DO AN ANALYSIS
OF THE GOVERNMENT PLUME THAT&apos;S
CONTINUING ON TRACK TO I ASK
ABOUT A CLOSED SESSION TODAY
REGARDING THIRD SALVATOR REPORT
AND OUT OF RESPECT FOR THE NEW
CITY ATTORNEY, I WILL DELAY ANY
COMMENTS ABOUT THAT UNTIL A
LATER DATE AND A GOOD NEWS ITEM
REGARDING EARTH DAY WHICH WE&apos;VE
ALREADY HEARD ABOUT.
THIS WAS DONE BY SHANNON WHO
ALSO DID A HUMAN CAN BE COUNTED
AND SHE DELIVERED ONE OF THESE
POSTERS TO EVERY ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL ON SUNDAY AND THEY&apos;RE
THERE TO REMIND THE CHILDREN
ABOUT EARTH DAY.
THERE ARE LITTLE WORMS WITH
COMPOST OR EVEN SOLAR PANELS.
SO AGAIN, THANK YOU, SHANNON.
AND WE REALLY APPRECIATE THIS
AND WE&apos;LL HAVE IT AT BIRTHDAY
CELEBRATIONS AND ALSO WE WILL
HAVE A STATION FOR MAKE YOUR
OWN NO MORE NAME SCIENCE.
SO THIS MAY GIVE YOU SOME IDEAS
OF WHAT YOU WANT TO PUT ON YOUR
MASAN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
SUMMER SONG.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;D LIKE TO THANK CHIEF COX
AND APD FOR MEETING WITH THE
ASIAN PACIFIC ISLANDER SOUTH
ASIAN AMERICAN PARENT ADVISORY
GROUP A PIEGZA WHICH IS A
PARENT ADVISORY GROUP THAT WAS
JUST STARTED LAST YEAR AND THE
DISCUSSION WAS REALLY HOW DO WE
ENGAGE PLEASE?
HOW DO WE THINK ABOUT PUBLIC
SAFETY IN THE WAKE OF SOME
INCIDENCES IN OUR COMMUNITY OR
SOME INCIDENCES OF ANTIGENIC?
IT WAS A NICE START.
I FEEL LIKE IT WAS A
CONVERSATION WORTH CONTINUING
AND I HEARD FROM PARENTS WHO
WHO CONVEYED THEIR SENTIMENTS
AND APPRECIATION AND EXCITEMENT
TO THEIR OWN ACTIVITIES
THROUGHOUT AND EVER THIS IS A
PARENT GROUP THAT FOLLOWED
CLOSELY THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND
ADVICE AND SUPPORT OF OTHER
GROUPS, PARENT GROUPS AND
COMMUNITY INCLUDING THE
ARAB-AMERICAN PARENT GROUP.
SO IT WAS REALLY LOVELY TO SEE
THE DAJARRA FAMILY REPRESENTED
HERE THE JURORS ARE REMEASURE
JURORS MY DAUGHTER&apos;S FIFTH
GRADE TEACHER SO IT&apos;S NICE TO
SEE THAT CONNECTION BETWEEN
PARENT GROUPS WHO ARE
ADVOCATING FOR RACIAL AND
ETHNIC GROUPS IN INNER CITY.
&gt;&gt; THANKS FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNSEL
.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LIKE
SO FOR
CONSIDERATION AT THE APRIL FOR
2022 REGULAR SESSION TO THE
HOUSING AND HUMAN SERVICES
ADVISORY BOARD KAREN ONES HAVE
EMOTION PLEASE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER GRANT SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER GRISWOLD
DISCUSSION ON FAVRE POSED IT IS
APPROVED WE HAVE APHORISTIC
CONSENT AGENDA FOR MOTION
PLEASE APPROVE IT IN SUCH A
MOVE BY COUNCIL FOR A SECOND
DAY COUNCIL MEMBER OUR
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA GRISWOLD.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T WANT TO PULL ANY
ITEMS BUT I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
A COMMENT ABOUT ONE.
MAY I DO THAT NOW OR WAIT UNTIL
LATER?
NO YOU HAVE THE FLOOR.
OK, ONE OF THE ISSUES THAT
AROSE WITH SOME OF THE STREET
CLOSINGS IS THAT NEIGHBORS WERE
NOT AWARE OF THE STREET CLOSING
ESPECIALLY ON NORTH MAIN STREET
AND SO THE REQUEST WAS COULD WE
SEND OUT SOMEONE TO PUT DOOR
HANGERS ON THE ON THE STREETS
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE SEASON
BECAUSE I KNOW WE DO HAVE IT
ONLINE AND THOSE DOOR HANGERS
COULD IDENTIFY WHERE THEY ARE
BUT A NUMBER OF PEOPLE WERE
WERE BLOCKED FROM GETTING OUT
OF THEIR PROPERTIES ON MAIN
STREET THE BEGINNING OF THE
SEASON.
SO I&apos;M JUST TEARING THAT
FORWARD AS A SUGGESTION FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCILOR SONG AND
SEE ONE OF THIS I THINK IT&apos;S
ACTUALLY SHOULD BE THE CLAY
SHAW AREA NEIGHBORHOOD
ASSOCIATION, NOT THE HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION.
&gt;&gt; THE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
WAS DISSOLVED.
I JUST HAVE A MESSAGE SENT THAT
I WAS SUPPOSED TO CONVEY WHICH
IS THE ORGANIZERS ASKED THAT
POLITICIANS NOT THROW CANDY AT
THE PARADE FOR THE DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POSED CONSENT.
&gt;&gt; THE JUDGES APPROVED THE TOWN
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO A
FOUR AND THAT IS ALL WE NOW
COME TO A PUBLIC HEARING PUBLIC
HEARINGS ARE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO COUNTY IN THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT
MATTER OF THE PUBLIC HEARING.
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO SPEAK AT
A PUBLIC HEARING YOU NEED NOT
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BUT
YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING SPEAKERS HAVE
THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIMER WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN 30
SECONDS ARE REMAINING AND WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED, PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE A PUBLIC HEARING NO
ONE AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER 55 ZONING REZONING
OF ZERO POINT ZERO FIVE ACRES
FROM TDP TOWNSHIP DISTRICT TO
R-1 BE SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT WILSON BARRY PROPERTY
SIX ONE FOUR RIVERVIEW DRIVE.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS BEAUDREAU IS THERE ANYONE ON
LINE WITH WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
&gt;&gt; IF YOU ARE ON LINE PLEASE
ENTER STANADYNE STAR NO MAYOR I
DON&apos;T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON THE
LINE FOR THIS HEARING
.
&gt;&gt; SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE TO FORCE THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF APRIL FOUR TWENTY TWENTY TWO
.
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THESE MINUTES MOVE BY
COUNSEL SECOND BY AT DENHA
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES OFFER
POSED THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED
.
&gt;&gt; WE WANT AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE REZONING
OF POINT ZERO FIVE ACRES RATHER
PLEASE ONLY POINT REZONING
OF ZERO POINT FIVE ACRES FROM
TDP TOWNSHIP DISTRICT TO R-1 BE
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
WILSON BERRY PROPERTY SIX ONE
FOR REVIEW DRIVE MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECOND BY
COUNT NO SONG DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS SO STRAIGHTFORWARD
BUT I&apos;LL JUST SAY IT ANYWAY.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A PROPERTY WITHIN
THE CITY&apos;S UTILITY SERVICE AREA
AT 614 RIVERVIEW DRIVE THAT WAS
RECENTLY ANNEXED WANTS TO BE
ZONED R ONE B WHICH IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE ZONING AND
ITS REASON FOR WANTING TO BE AN
URBAN WANTING TO BE ANNEXED AND
ARIZONA IS THAT ITS SEPTIC
SYSTEM IS FAILING SO IT&apos;S VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHY I FELT LIKE I
SHOULD TELL YOU THAT BUT THERE
YOU GO.
&gt;&gt; FURTHER DISCUSSION OR FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED C WANT AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION 263
OF CHAPTER TWENTY NINE WATER
RATES OF TITLE TWO OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY THAT ARE
REMOVED BY COUNTERPROGRAM
SIGNIFICATIVE REDISH DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C1
COUNCIL BRENER I
JUST TO DRAW THE PUBLIC&apos;S
ATTENTION TO THE BUDGET
PRESENTATION AND ALONG WITH
THIS BEFORE TONIGHT AND AND
POINT OUT THAT SIX PERCENT IN
CRUTE NINE SIX PERCENT
INCREASES IS EQUAL TO A
DOUBLING AND WE&apos;VE WE&apos;VE DONE
MORE THAN HALF THAT IN MY SHORT
TIME HERE ON COUNCIL AND SO IT
LOOKS LIKE BY 2020 FIVE FIFTEEN
TWENTY TWENTY EIGHTEEN AND
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE WE&apos;RE GOING
TO HAVE HAD DOUBLED YOUR WATER
RATES AND SO YOU I&apos;VE I&apos;M NOT
GOING TO BE A PART OF THAT YET
AGAIN SO I&apos;M NOT GOING TO VOTE
FOR THIS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
I WILL OBSERVE THAT THE WATER
RATES ARE INCREASING, THAT THE
AVERAGE THESE ARE OF COURSE THE
PACKAGE OF RATES THAT ARE
DESIGNED TO MEET THE COST
OF PROVIDING THE SERVICE TO
RESIDENTS TODAY AND RESIDENTS
TOMORROW.
&gt;&gt; WE ALL KNOW THAT OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE REQUIRES UPKEEP
AND THAT UPKEEP EXISTS IN A
CONTEXT IN WHICH CONSTRUCTION
COSTS THEMSELVES ARE INCREASING
AND THAT WE MUST ACCELERATE OUR
PROVISION OF SERVICES, OUR
IMPROVEMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
AND THAT IS WHAT WE INTEND TO
DO.
THE WATER RATE WILL SUPPORT
WATER MAINS, IMPROVED
DISTRIBUTION AND AND ULTIMATELY
AN IMPROVED WATER TREATMENT
PLANT WHICH WILL WASH OUT THE
1930S TECHNOLOGY THAT WE ARE
CONTINUE TO USE AND WILL ENABLE
US TO BOTH EXPAND CAPACITY AND
EXPAND THE THE ABILITY OF OUR
CITY EXPERTS TO TREAT
CONTAMINANTS KNOWN AND AS YET
UNANTICIPATED FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER.
I JUST LIKE TO POINT OUT THAT
YOU KNOW, THAT&apos;S ALL WELL AND
GOOD THAT WE HAVE TO MAKE THESE
INVESTMENTS.
BUT IT SHOULD BE IT SHOULD BE
POINTED OUT THAT THE REASON WE
HAVE TO MAKE THIS INVESTMENTS
IS THAT PREVIOUS COUNCILS HAVE
FAILED TO DO SO THAT IT WAS
IT&apos;S WELL KNOWN THAT OUR WATER
TREATMENT PLANT WAS AGING.
IT HAS BEEN AROUND PARTS OF IT
HAVE BEEN AROUND SINCE THE 30S
AND I JUST THINK THAT WE COULD
DO A BETTER JOB OF DRAWING OUT
THESE INCREASES IN OUR RATES TO
EASE ESPECIALLY IN THIS TIME
OF HIGH INFLATION.
IT&apos;S THE NO NO.
TWO THING I HEAR FROM PEOPLE
FIX THE ROADS AND HOW COME
EVERY TIME MY WATER BILL IT&apos;S
HIGHER AND HIGHER AND HIGHER
EVEN THOUGH MY USAGE IS GOING
DOWN AND WE HAVEN&apos;T REALLY
GOTTEN CREATIVE AROUND LOOKING
AT THAT AND SO IT&apos;S
DISAPPOINTING THAT WE&apos;RE
SHOULDERING BURDENING THE
PEOPLE IN OUR COMMUNITY RIGHT
NOW I SUPPOSE WITH THE WEALTH
INEQUALITIES THE VAST MAJORITY
OF US NOT US BUT THE COMMUNITY
MAY NOT BE RATHER ABOUT THE
COMMUNITY YOU KNOW, CAN HANDLE
THIS.
IT&apos;S NOT A BIG DEAL TO WRITE
ANOTHER CHECK FOR FOR MOST
PEOPLE IN OUR CITY BUT FOR A
LOT OF PEOPLE IT&apos;S SUPPOSED TO
BE FIXED INCOME.
IT IS A BIG DEAL AND SO WHEN
YOU KNOW WHEN BUDGET COMES UP
OR WE SPEND OUR FUNDING ON
THINGS THAT DON&apos;T REALLY HELP
PEOPLE AT THE LOWER END OF THE
SOCIOECONOMIC STRATOSPHERE IN
OUR CITY, YOU KNOW, WE SHOULD
TAKE A LOOK AT THAT.
WE SHOULD SEE IF WE NEED TO
INCREASE FUNDING FOR FOR AIDING
PEOPLE THAT THAT CAN&apos;T AFFORD
TO PAY THESE BILLS.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILOR GROUND, THANK YOU.
YOU KNOW, I DON&apos;T THINK THE
ANSWER FOR PAST US INVESTMENT
IS FUTURE DISINVESTMENT.
IT IS UNFORTUNATE THAT WE HAVE
TO RAISE THESE RATES.
BUT I THINK THAT OTHER
UTILITIES HAVE BEEN COGNIZANT
OF THE INVESTMENT THAT WE NEED
TO MAKE IN OUR WATER TREATMENT
AND WATER DISTRIBUTION AND THEN
IF WE LOOK AT STORMWATER BEING
FLAT AND MORE MODEST, LOOKING
AT, YOU KNOW, OTHERS SEWER
BEING SORRY SERVING FORT
MADISON STORMWATER BEING
RELATIVELY MODEST COMPARED TO
WATER IT&apos;S NO ONE WANTS TO
RAISE RATES BUT WE CAN&apos;T BURY
OUR HEADS IN THE SAND.
WE NEED TO MAKE THESE
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS BECAUSE
WE ALSO HEAR FROM RESIDENTS
THAT THE QUALITY OF THEIR WATER
AND WATER SAFETY IS IMPORTANT
AND WE NEED TO ADDRESS KNOWN
CONTAMINANTS.
FUTURE CONTAMINANTS AND AND
MAKE THESE KNOWN UPGRADES TO
OUR INFRASTRUCTURE FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; ROLL CALL THOUGH PLEASE
START WITH COUNCIL OPERATOR FOR
HAYNER NO NO DIS YES CUSTOMER
GRISWOLD&apos;S YES CUSTOMER SONG
YES COUNTERPROGRAM YES DENHA
YES RETAILOR YES NO IHR YES
CUSTOMER NELSON YES CUSTOMER
BRIGG YES.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHY ALLOWING APSA
MOTION CARRIES SEE TO AN ART
INSTRUMENTAL SECTION TWO SIX
NINE OF CHAPTER TWENTY NINE
STORM WATER RIGHTS OF TITLE TO
THE CODE OF THE CITY BANABA
MOVED BY COUNCIL OF BRITISH
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG&apos;S DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF KEY TO COUNCILOR GRANT.
THANK YOU.
I ALSO FORGOT TO MENTION AS
PART OF MR TONY&apos;S EXCELLENT
PRESENTATION PART OF WHAT STAFF
IS PROPOSING FOR SOME OF THOSE
MARIJUANA TAX REFUNDS TO THE
CITY WILL BE TO HELP THOSE
RESIDENTS WHO ARE STRUGGLING TO
PAY THEIR UTILITY BILLS.
SO FOR THOSE WHERE IT IS A
STRUGGLE, HOPEFULLY WE CAN
FOLLOW STAFF&apos;S RECOMMENDATION
AND SOME OF THOSE FUNDS
AVAILABLE TO MEET THAT CONCERN
THROUGH THE SPECIAL COUNSEL
BEHEADER.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW THAT IF YOU REACH OUT
TO OUR WATER RESOURCE
COMMISSIONER, THE COUNTY AND
ALSO THE CITY&apos;S OWN STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT EXPERT, THEY WOULD
SUGGEST THAT OUR REQUIREMENTS
FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT A NEW
DEVELOPMENT ARE WOEFULLY
INADEQUATE AND SOME SAY BY UP
TO THREE TO FIVE HUNDRED
PERCENT.
AND SO I WOULD URGE THOSE OF US
WHO HAVE ACCESS TO PLANNING
PERMISSION TO YOU KNOW, TWO
THINGS TO NEVER DO BLANKET
REZONING OF ENTIRE AREAS LIKE
WE DID WITH ONE WITHOUT
INCREASING STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT AS PART OF THAT AND
SECONDLY TO LOOK AT THE
EXISTING STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
REQUIREMENTS ON PROJECTS IN OUR
EXISTING ZONING DESIGNATIONS
AND SEE IF THEY SHOULD INDEED
BE BE STRENGTHENED AND PERHAPS
THIS WILL COME ABOUT AS PART
OF OUR COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
REVIEW WHICH IS LONG OVERDUE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH I WANTED TO REASSURE
PEOPLE THAT EVERY TIME THERE IS
A CHANGE TO AN EXISTING
DEVELOPMENT FOR EXAMPLE THERE&apos;S
INFILL.
WE SAW AN INITIAL PROPOSAL A
LITTLE WHILE AGO.
THERE ARE SIGNIFICANT UPGRADING
OF STORMWATER 85 PERCENT OF THE
CITY WAS BUILT WITH NO
STORMWATER PROTECTION AND
PLANNING COMMISSION
AGGRESSIVELY KEEPS ON EVERY
EXCUSE POSSIBLE TO GET
STORMWATER ADDED WHEN THERE&apos;S
ANY ALTERATION MADE.
IN ADDITION, THE TICK ONE ZONE
ANTICIPATES TALL BUILDINGS NOT
SPREAD OUT BUILDINGS SO THERE
IS NO NEED FOR ANY STRONGER
STORMWATER THAN WE ARE ASKING
OF ANY OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENT
BECAUSE IT DOES NOT CREATE
GREATER
STORMWATER REQUIREMENTS
THAT SO WE&apos;RE DOING FINE FOR
THE DISCUSSION ROLL-CALL VOTE
PLEASE STARTING WITH THE
COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER REMAINER
NO COUNCIL MEMBER DID.
YES WELL YES.
CONTROVERSAL YES THAT&apos;S MCGRANN
YES.
COUNCILOR DENHA YES.
RETAILOR YES THAT&apos;S MARIAH.
YES THAT&apos;S FAIR ENOUGH.
YES THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
YES BECAUSE WE WERE ME ABSENT
WELL YOU SEE THREE AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND CHAPTER 112
NONDISCRIMINATION IN SECTIONS
NINE ONE FIVE ZERO NINE ONE
FIVE ONE NINE ONE FIVE SIX NINE
ONE FIVE NINE NINE OF THE
CODE THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR TO
UPDATE DEFINITIONS OF GENDER
EXPRESSION, GENDER IDENTITY,
SEXUAL ORIENTATION REORDER
DEFINITIONS AND DEFINITION
OF RELIGION TO INCLUDE
PROHIBITION AGAINST RELIGIOUS
BASED HAIR AND HEAD COVERINGS
DISCRIMINATION AND TO REMOVE
REQUIREMENT THAT COMPLAINT BE
FILED WITHIN 180 DAYS BY
COUNCILOR DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCILOR NELSON DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C THREE COUNCILOR
DENHA THANK YOU MAYOR COUNCIL
MEMBERS THIS IS A AN UPDATE
COMING TO US FROM THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; SO FIRST I WANT TO THANK
THEM FOR THEIR WORK ON THIS.
THIS IS OBVIOUSLY A
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE IS
A LAW THAT THEY ARE CONSTANTLY
KEEPING THEIR EYES ON AND
LOOKING TO UPDATE AS WE
CONTINUE TO LEARN AND GROW AND
IMPROVE AS A COMMUNITY.
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF THINGS
THAT I WILL SPECIFICALLY DRAW
ATTENTION TO.
ONE YOU&apos;LL REMEMBER THAT OUT
OF OUR DISCUSSIONS LAST YEAR TO
ENACT THE CROWN AMENDMENT OR
THE CROWN ACT HERE IN ANN
ARBOR, THERE WERE SOME
DISCUSSIONS AT THE AT HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION ABOUT ALSO
MAKING SURE THAT WE WERE
INCLUDING THE DEFINITION
OF RELIGION THAT DID NOT ALLOW
FOR DISCRIMINATION AGAINST
RELIGIOUS HEAD COVERINGS AND
RELIGIOUS HAIRSTYLES.
AND SO YOU WILL SEE THAT
REFLECTED HERE.
THERE ARE ALSO SOME ADDITIONAL
UPDATES TO GENDER EXPRESSION
AND GENDER IDENTITY TO ENSURE
THAT AN INDIVIDUAL&apos;S ACTUAL OR
PERCEIVED GENDER RELATED
APPEARANCE OR EXPRESSION OR
BEHAVIOR IS INCLUDED.
AND SO THIS IS JUST A NUMBER
OF ADDITIONAL UPDATES AS AS
THIS AS WE CONTINUE TO EVOLVE
AS A COMMUNITY AND I THANK THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION FOR
THEIR WORK AND THEIR DILIGENCE
IN CONTINUING TO MAKE UPDATES
AND IMPROVEMENTS TO THIS THIS
LAW.
THANKS SOMEONE ELSE.
AND I&apos;D JUST LIKE TO ADD THAT
THERE ARE THIS WAS THE SUBJECT
OF SIGNIFICANT DISCUSSION AMONG
A SUBSET OF THE HRC THAT WORKED
PRETTY HARD AND THE COMMITTEE
ON THIS THERE IS THE OTHER
PIECE OF THIS AMENDMENT IS
LIFTING THE REQUIREMENT THAT A
REPORT BE MADE WITHIN ONE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY DAYS AND
THERE WAS SIGNIFICANT
DISCUSSION AROUND HOW THE THE
TIMING OF WHEN AN INCIDENT
HAPPENED REALLY SHOULDN&apos;T BE A
DISQUALIFYING FACTOR IN TERMS
OF US WANTING TO DISCUSS IT AND
UNDERSTAND MORE ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED AND WHAT MIGHT HAVE
GONE WRONG.
SO THANK YOU THANK YOU TO THE
HRC AND THE ATTORNEYS WHO
SUPPORT THE HRC AND HELP US
CRAFT THESE THINGS.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
FAVRE POSED.
&gt;&gt; IT IS APPROVED.
DO YOU SEE ONE RESOLUTION FOR
THE CITY THAT ARE TO SPONSOR
INFORMATION OR NEIGHBORHOOD
ASSISTANCE CORPORATION
OF AMERICA NACA MORTGAGES TO
CITY EMPLOYEES AND RESIDENTS BY
COUNCILOR DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC ONE MAYOR KILOVOLT
I HAD SOME COMMUNICATIONS WITH
THE CITY ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE AND
THEY RAISED SOME QUESTIONS AND
I WAS WONDERING IF WE COULD
TAKE A FIVE MINUTE BREAK.
I THINK WE MIGHT BE ABLE TO
RESOLVE THOSE SO THAT WE COULD
MOVE FORWARD THIS EVENING ON
THIS RESOLUTION AND NOT
POSTPONE IT TO CAN WE HAVE ANY
OBJECTION TO THAT?
&gt;&gt; IT SEEMS I&apos;LL JUST SAY THAT
CERTAINLY WE&apos;VE HAD SOME
COMMUNICATIONS ABOUT THIS TODAY
.
I&apos;M NOT AWARE OF THE FACT THAT
WE WERE TRYING TO MOVE FORWARD
WITH IT.
I RECOMMENDATION IS TO POSTPONE
AND THAT PROBABLY WILL REMAIN
OUR RECOMMENDATION.
&gt;&gt; BUT YOU ARE WELCOME TO TAKE
A BREAK IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO.
I TEND NOT TO LIKE TO DO THAT
BUT SINCE WE ARE ON ON THE
EARLY SIDE I GUESS IT&apos;S A
MATTER OF COURTESY.
I&apos;M OK WITH THAT PLEASE LET&apos;S
KEEP IT TRULY TO FIVE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S A GREAT TEAM.
LET&apos;S GET BACK IN HERE AT A23
.
WE&apos;RE BACK AFTER A SHORT BREAK.
&gt;&gt; KOTSENBURG GRISWOLD THAT&apos;S
DM YOU STILL HAVING THE FLOOR?
I&apos;D LIKE TO POSTPONE THE
RESOLUTION UNTIL OUR FIRST
MEETING IN MAY.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE A SECOND BY
COUNCILOR DENHA COUNCIL
WORKERS?
&gt;&gt; WELL THE CITY ATTORNEY&apos;S
OFFICE HAS MENTIONED THAT THEY
ARE WORKING ON REVISING SOME
OF THE RESOLUTION INCLUDING
WHEREAS CLAUSES AND BECAUSE WE
DO WANT THIS TO BE A MODEL
RESOLUTION THAT CAN BE ADOPTED
BY OTHER COMMUNITIES, I THINK
IT&apos;S WORTHWHILE TO TO WAIT TWO
WEEKS SO THAT WE WE HAVE AN
EXCELLENT RESOLUTION
.
&gt;&gt; FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
POSTPONEMENT WILL FAVOR OPPOSED
IT IS POSTPONED.
THANK YOU DC TO A RESOLUTION TO
EXTEND THE DAYS OF THE MAIN
STREET AREA MAIN STREET AREA IN
ARBER SOCIAL MINCY THERE IN OUR
SOCIAL DISTRICT BY COUNCILOR
SONGZA BY KATMAI BRIGS
DISCUSSION PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; THE DC TWO COUNCIL BREAKS I
THINK WE HAVE ALL SEEN THE
COMMUNICATIONS FROM DOWNTOWN
BUSINESSES THE MAIN STREET AREA
ASSOCIATION IN SUPPORT OF THIS.
I DID WANT TO PUT FORWARD AN
AMENDMENT THAT&apos;S SOMETHING WE
HAD ANTICIPATED WOULD BE
ACTUALLY IN THE RESOLUTION BUT
KIND OF BUT ISN&apos;T IT SO YOU&apos;VE
ALSO SEEN COMMUNICATIONS FROM
DESTINATION ANN ARBOR AND MAIN
STREET AREA ASSOCIATION IN
SUPPORT OF THIS.
SO I THINK IF YOU COULD SEND
THAT AROUND BUT ESSENTIALLY IT
WOULD CHANGE THE HOURS
OF OPERATION, AMEND IT TO
SUNDAY THROUGH SATURDAY FROM
10:00 A.M. TO 11:00 P.M. IS
THERE A SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCILOR OR OH WAIT TILL THE
AMENDMENT ARRIVES TO SEE
WHETHER IT&apos;S FRIENDLY
.
&gt;&gt; THERE WAS NOT NOT BUT WE
KNOW WHERE TO TURN.
I&apos;LL HAVE A QUESTION FOR HIM
.
THIS IS SUNDAY.
AM I HEARING THAT THIS IS GOING
TO APPLY TO SUNDAY ALSO 10:00
AM SEVEN DAYS SINCE WHEN CAN
YOU SHOW LIQUOR BEFORE NOON ON
SUNDAY BUT I BELIEVE THAT GO
WITH VOTING FOR SURE PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I BELIEVE THAT RIGHT.
BARS AND RESTAURANTS ALREADY DO
THAT GANDY DANCER I KNOW DOES
IT FOR THEIR BRUNCHES PACKAGE
LIQUOR THAT CAN&apos;T BE SOLD
BEFORE NOON ON A SUNDAY.
&gt;&gt; WELL I THINK IT CAN KIND
OF DO THAT NOW TOO IF YOU PAY
EXTRA MONEY FOR PRETTY NEW
DETAILS ON SUNDAY.
BUT I&apos;M NOT PREPARED TO REALLY
ANSWER WHAT YOU CAN&apos;T AND CAN&apos;T
BUY BEFORE NOON.
HONESTLY JEFF ARE OK BUT THIS
YOU&apos;LL BE ABLE TO LISTEN.
I&apos;M IN FRONT OF THE BODY SEE NO
OBJECTION.
I&apos;M DECLARING IT FRIENDLY FOR
THE DISCUSSION.
THE MAIN MOTION AS AMENDED
COUNCILOR HAYNER, I CERTAINLY
UNDERSTAND WHY THE BUSINESS
OWNERS WANT TO WANT TO DO THIS.
I BELIEVE I VOTED AGAINST THE
FIRST ONE BECAUSE THE CONCERNS
THAT SOME OF OUR PEOPLE THE APD
COMMAND STAFF HAD ABOUT HAVING
DIFFICULTY IN DISTINGUISHING
BETWEEN FOLKS WHO WERE JUST
WALKING AROUND WITH BAGS AND
COMING, YOU KNOW, STUDENTS AND
FLOWING INTO CAMPUS INTO THESE
AREAS AND SO ON.
AND I GUESS I&apos;M NOT A BIG FAN
OF PROMOTING PUBLIC DRINKING
AND SO I&apos;M NOT GOING TO SUPPORT
THIS THIS TIME EITHER BECAUSE
EXTENDING THE HOURS AND THE
DAYS OF IT AND SO ON I HAVE NO
DOUBT WILL PASS AND AND I JUST
I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT, YOU KNOW,
THIS BODY TOLERATES DRUNKS AND
SO I JUST I THINK IT&apos;S A I
THINK IT&apos;S A WEIRD THING.
I KNOW OTHER COMMUNITIES ARE
DOING AND I KNOW SOME PEOPLE
HAVE HAD SOME SUCCESS WITH IT
BUT I JUST IT DOESN&apos;T SEEM LIKE
THE RIGHT THING TO SUPPORT FOR
THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
IRA, THANK YOU.
I&apos;M PLEASED TO SUPPORT THIS.
I WOULD LOVE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR.
I HAD HOPED TO BE PRIOR TO THAT
BUT I GUESS I DIDN&apos;T GET MY
NAME IN IN TIME.
&gt;&gt; I FULLY SUPPORT THIS NOT
ONLY DID I THINK IT WAS A GOOD
IDEA AND I SUPPORTED IT
INITIALLY.
THE DATA BEAR OUT THAT THIS HAS
NOT LED TO ANY PROBLEMS.
THERE HAVE BEEN NO NO PROBLEMS
WITH THIS PROGRAM WHATSOEVER
AND SO I&apos;M HAPPY TO SUPPORT IT
EXTEND IT AND AND TAKE THIS
ACTION THAT OUR DOWNTOWN
BUSINESSES ARE ASKING FOR AND
FEEL THAT WILL BE A BENEFIT TO
THAT COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I TOO WOULD REQUEST TO BE ADDED
AS A CO-SPONSOR.
I AM ALSO GOING TO SUPPORT
THIS.
I THINK THAT SIMILAR COUNCIL
MEMBER ER WE DID NOT SEE
PROBLEMS RELATED TO THIS THE
LAST TIME IT WAS PASSED.
IT IS SOMETHING THAT CERTAINLY
SUPPORTS OUR OUR DOWNTOWN AND
AND CONTINUES TO BRING PEOPLE
IN AND SO I LOOK FORWARD TO
SUPPORTING IT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
BERT GRANTER THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M PLEASED TO SUPPORT THIS
AS WELL.
THANK THE SPONSORS AND MANY
PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY, MANY
OF OUR LOCAL BUSINESSES WHO
REACHED OUT TO US TO ADVOCATE
FOR AN EXPANSION OF THIS.
I THINK WE KNEW THAT IT WOULD
BE SUCCESSFUL.
WE FOLLOWED OTHER COMMUNITIES
EXAMPLES IN DOING SO AND I DO
WANT TO ADDRESS THE COMMENT
THAT WAS MADE ABOUT HIS RATHER
DISPARAGING COMMENT ABOUT THIS
COUNCIL&apos;S STANCE ON THINGS WHEN
SOME MEMBERS OF THIS COUNCIL
WERE VERY HONORED TO SPEAK AT
HASH HASHTAG THERE WEREN&apos;T
OTHERS THAT MADE DISPARAGING
COMMENTS ABOUT THOSE COUNCIL
MEMBERS BECAUSE MANY OF US ALSO
SUPPORT THOSE LOCAL BUSINESSES
IN OUR COMMUNITY.
SO I WOULD HOPE THAT WE COULD
DO YOU KNOW AND TAKE MANY
ACTIONS TO SUPPORT OUR LOCAL
BUSINESSES PARTICULARLY WITH
WHEN WE KNOW THAT WE HAVE DATA
THAT SUPPORTS THOSE ACTIONS.
THANKS ALSO FOR SOME THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT MR HONY, MR
FORNIA OTHER CITY STAFF HAD
REVIEWED WITH CONVERSATION WITH
APD AND FIRE.
SO I&apos;D LIKE TO THANK MR DANI
FOR GOING THE EXTRA MILE AND
ACTUALLY TAKING A LITTLE BIT
MORE TIME AND MAKING SURE THAT
AS WE PROCEED AND EXTEND THIS
PROGRAM WE ARE DOING IT
CAREFULLY AND THOUGHTFULLY IN
CONSIDERATION ALSO WITH PUBLIC
WORKS IN ANTICIPATION OF ANY
ADDITIONAL TRASH SONDRE DELAY
OF THE MAIN STREET ASSOCIATION
WORKED REALLY HARD ON THIS AND
MAKING SURE THAT WE COLLABORATE
AND WE&apos;RE IN TUNE WITH EACH
OTHER AND COMMUNICATING
CLOSELY.
SO THIS WAS SOMETHING THAT WAS
INITIALLY CONSIDERED TO HAVE
BEEN BROUGHT UP AT THE LAST
COUNCIL MEETING.
BUT WITH THIS EXTRA
CONSIDERATION AND I THINK I
JUST I THINK THIS IS A GREAT,
GREAT WAY TO PROCEED.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S A GOOD IT&apos;S GOOD
PRACTICE FOR WHAT WE CAN DO
NEXT TIME AROUND WHEN WE WHEN
WE RENEW THIS EFFORT.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M IN SUPPORT COUNCIL
WORK AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; I RECEIVED MANY LETTERS IN
SUPPORT OF THIS.
I&apos;D LIKE TO BE LISTED AS A
CO-SPONSOR WITH THE EXPECTATION
THAT STAFF WILL CONTINUE TO
MONITOR THIS.
I UNDERSTAND THAT IT HAS GONE
VERY WELL SO FAR AND I&apos;D ALSO
LIKE TO STATE THAT GIVEN THE
SUCCESS OF THIS PROGRAM AND THE
ACTIVITY DOWNTOWN THAT FURTHER
PUTS PRESSURE ON THE NEED TO
HAVE PUBLIC RESTROOM DOWNTOWN.
I HOPE WE CAN MOVE FORWARD WITH
THAT AS THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; ROLL ROLL CALL VOTE PLEASE.
STARTING WITH COUNCIL HAYNER
REMAINER NO READ IT.
YES THAT&apos;S MY AS WELL.
YES CONTROVERSAL YES.
YES BECAUSE OUR DENHA YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES THAT&apos;S MARIAH.
YES THAT&apos;S OUR NELSON.
YES THAT&apos;S OUR BRIGGS.
YES SIR.
I&apos;M MALAWI ABSENT MOTION
CARRIES DOWN ONE RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING TWENTY TWENTY TWO
MICHIGAN TRANSPORTATION FUND
BONDS NOT TO EXCEED FIFTEEN
MILLION GENERAL OBLIGATION
LIMITED TAX MOVED BY KOTSENBURG
DISH BY CUTS MCGRANN DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF THE YES ONE.
FOR MY PART I AM DELIGHTED THAT
THIS IS MOVING FORWARD AND I&apos;M
GRATEFUL TO FRANKLY THE
INITIATIVE OF STAFF AND MR TONY
FOR FOR MAKING IT HAPPEN.
&gt;&gt; AS WE ALL KNOW THE ROADS IN
ANN ARBOR DO NOT MEET OUR
ASPIRATIONS AND WE ARE NOT
WE&apos;RE NOT SATISFIED WITH THEM.
WE HAVE HAD DIFFICULTY
IMPROVING THEM AS WE AS WE WISH
PARTICULARLY WITH RESPECT TO
NEIGHBORHOOD AND LOCAL STREETS.
THE ISSUANCE OF THIS ROAD BOND
IS GOING TO GIVE US THE TOOLS
TO DO THAT, THE TOOLS TO
ACCELERATE ROAD SPENDING, TO
ACCELERATE ROAD REPAIR SO THAT
THE THE STREETS THROUGHOUT IN
ARBORS BEAUTIFUL THROUGHOUT THE
ENTIRE NEIGHBORHOODS ARE AS
BEAUTIFUL AS THE NEIGHBORHOODS
THROUGH WHICH THEY TRAVEL.
&gt;&gt; WE KNOW WE KNOW THAT THIS IS
GOING TO MEAN A LOT
OF CONSTRUCTION OVER THE NEXT
COUPLE OF YEARS AND I THINK WE
ASK RESIDENTS FOR THEIR
INDULGENCE WITH RESPECT TO THAT
CONSTRUCTION BECAUSE YOU KNOW,
YOU CAN&apos;T FIX THE ROADS WITHOUT
FIXING THE ROADS.
BUT AT THE END I THINK WHAT
EVERYBODY WANTS IS FOR AN
ARBOR&apos;S ROADS TO BE TO BE
EXCELLENT AND THIS THIS
ACCELERATED FUNDING IS GOING TO
MOVE US IN THAT DIRECTION.
SO I CAN LIKE TO EXTEND MY
THANKS TO TO STAFF MR TONY FOR
THE INITIATIVE TO BRING THIS
FORWARD AND I&apos;M DELIGHTED THAT
WE&apos;LL BE ADVANCING IT HERE
TODAY FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER GRISWOLD.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I&apos;M VERY THANKFUL FOR
THIS PROGRAM AND WHILE IT&apos;S NOT
IDEAL TO BORROW MONEY THAT HAS
TO BE PAID BACK IN THE FUTURE
FOR CURRENT PROJECTS, WE HAVE
TO REALIZE THAT WE HAVE
UNDERFUNDED OUR OUR ROADS FOR A
NUMBER OF YEARS AND SO THIS IS
THE RIGHT THING TO DO.
I ALSO AM VERY FAMILIAR WITH
THIS PROCESS BECAUSE I WAS IN
LANSING AND ATTENDED A COUPLE
OF THE TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE
MEETINGS WHERE THE DIRECTOR
OF AMDE PRESENTED THIS PROPOSAL
AND I JUST GOOGLED STATE
OF MICHIGAN BONDS FOR ROADS AND
IT MENTIONED THAT THE MICHIGAN
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
JUST CLOSED
ON A SECOND 800
MILLION DOLLAR BOND AS PART
OF A THREE POINT FIVE BILLION
DOLLAR PROJECT.
SO THIS IS A SMALL AMOUNT BUT I
THINK MR. DE HONY FOR DOING
THIS AND WOULD SUPPORT FURTHER
BOND IF IT&apos;S NECESSARY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
IT&apos;S DENHA.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I JUST ALSO WANT TO ADD MY
WORDS OF SUPPORT FOR FOR THIS
EFFORT AND THANK ADMINISTRATOR
DONI AND STAFF FOR PUTTING
THEIR WORK INTO IT.
I KNOW THAT VERY SHORTLY AFTER
ARRIVING ADMINISTRATOR TONY
HEARD COUNCIL TALKING ABOUT OUR
DESIRE TO SEE IMPROVEMENTS MADE
AND CAME FORWARD WITH THIS
PROPOSAL AND SO I APPRECIATE
HIS INITIATIVE AND I ALSO THINK
THAT IT&apos;S ANOTHER DEMONSTRATION
OF WHY WE ARE WORKING TO KEEP
HIM HERE.
BUT BUT I ALSO I HAVE SPOKEN
PREVIOUSLY ABOUT THE NEED FOR
US TO IMPROVE OUR STREET
CONDITIONS, PARTICULARLY OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD AND LOCAL
CONDITIONS IN ALL THESE STAND
ARBER WHERE SOME OF THE WORST
DROUGHT CONDITIONS IN THE CITY
ARE AND TO THE EXTENT THAT THIS
HELPS TO EXPEDITE SOME OF THOSE
IMPROVEMENTS I AM LOOKING
FORWARD TO THIS AND AND HOPE
THAT WE&apos;LL SEE DRAMATIC
IMPROVEMENTS OVER THE NEXT
SEVERAL YEARS.
&gt;&gt; THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; ROLL CALL THOUGH PLEASE.
STARTING WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
HAYNER COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER
CHAIR.
&gt;&gt; YES, YES, YES.
AS WELL.
YES PLEASE MURSAU YES.
THAT&apos;S YES THAT&apos;S MY DENHA YES.
RETAILOR YES MARIAH YES.
ELSEWHERE AND AWESOME.
YES IT&apos;S MY BREAK.
YES THAT&apos;S MY FAMILY EP THE
MOTION CARRIES TODAY.
DO WE HAVE A CLOSED SESSION?
YES WE DO MAYOR THIS WILL BE A
CLOSED SESSION UNDER THE
MICHIGAN OPEN MEETINGS ACT FOR
THE PURPOSE OF DISCUSSING
PENDING LITIGATION HAS SET
FORTH AND INCORPORATED IT IN
CLAY SECTION FIFTEEN POINT TWO
SIX EIGHT IS THE SUBJECT OF THE
CLOSED SESSION WILL BE THE CASE
OF MICHAEL DORTCH V. CITY
OF ANN ARBOR, WASHTENAW CIRCUIT
COURT CASE NUMBER NINETEEN
DEATHS TWELVE FORTY SEVEN
DEATHS CD.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH MAN
EMOTIONALLY TO GO TO A CLOSED
SESSION ON THAT BASIS MOVED BY
COUNCILOR I ASKED MY COUNCILOR
DENHA DISCUSSION ROLL-CALL VOTE
PLEASE STARTING WITH COUNCILOR
HAYNER SQUARE METER.
YES THAT&apos;S MEREDITH YES THAT&apos;S
RIGHT GRISWOLD YES YES YES YES.
ER TAYLOR YES OUR ER YES YES
CUSTOMER GROUP YES WE HERE
WE&apos;RE IN CLOSED SESSION.
&gt;&gt; MAY I JUST REMIND THE
COUNCIL THAT THE CLOSED SESSION
WILL BE HELD ON THE THIRD FLOOR
IN THE LOBBY
PLEASE TO
RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE THE USE
OF THE CIRCUIT COURT CASE
NUMBER ONE FOR SANDY DISCUSSION
OF WELL THE AGENDA IS THAT
LEADERSHIP FROM NO.
ALL RIGHT.
YES TO RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE
SOME OF THE PEOPLE
PARTICIPATING IN THE CASE
OF THE COURT THIS NINETEEN ONE
THREE FOUR SEVEN C.B BY ONE
WITH THEIR SUPPORT FOR THE
EXPRESSION OF THEIR OH PLEASE
APPROVE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SORRY.
OH I&apos;M JUST VOTE IN OPPOSITION
THIS LETTER IF THE CLERK CAN
RECOGNIZE THAT THAT&apos;S
ACCEPTABLE TO ME I&apos;M GOING TO
GIVE PETER
MAYOR I THINK YOUR
MIKE IS WE HAVE BEFORE US THE
CLERK SUPPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS.
WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
PROVE OUR SUPPORT LIKE
COUNCILOR SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IA DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; OUR FAVOR POSED IS APPROVED
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR CITY
ATTORNEY.
WE DON&apos;T HAVE COMMUNICATIONS.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
THANK YOU, MAYOR
COMMUNICATIONS
AND WELCOME.
WELL THANK YOU MAYOR.
DEAR COUNCIL MEMBERS THAT IS AN
HONOR AND A PRIVILEGE REALLY TO
BE OF SERVICE TO THE CITY
OF HANOVER THROUGH YOU THIS IS
MY FIRST MEETING AND I AM JUST
SO GLAD TO BE A CITIZEN HERE
BECAUSE I CAN SEE THAT YOU ARE
ALSO DILIGENTLY TAKING CARE
OF OUR INTERESTS AND I HOPE I
CAN CONTRIBUTE TO THAT FOR THE
NEXT COUPLE OF MEETINGS.
I WILL CONTINUE TO ALLOW MR
MCDONALD TO TAKE THE POSITION
AS THE REPRESENTATIVE THE
POSITION AS THE REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE CITY OFFICE BECAUSE I
HAVE MUCH TO LEARN, MUCH TO
GRASP SO THAT I CAN GIVE BACK
TO THE BEST OF MY ABILITY BUT I
WILL CONTINUE TO ATTEND.
I&apos;M HERE FOR YOU WHEN YOU HAVE
QUESTIONS.
I&apos;M HERE FOR YOU IF YOU DON&apos;T
UNDERSTAND ANYTHING OF THE LAW
IS COMPLEX.
THAT IS MY JOB.
THAT IS OUR JOB.
I&apos;M THRILLED THAT THE TEAM IS
EXCITED TO CONTINUE TO SERVE
YOU.
THEY ARE BRILLIANT AND I WILL
BE CONSTANTLY RELYING ON THEM
TO PROVIDE YOU THE SERVICE YOU
NEED AND THAT YOU DESERVE.
SO I HOPE TO HELP YOU BETTER DO
YOUR JOBS AND THANK YOU FOR
HAVING ME AND WELCOMING ME.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH AND WELCOME
INDEED AS YOU&apos;VE BEEN AS I&apos;VE
BEEN TOLD IT&apos;S NOT NINE O&apos;CLOCK
IT&apos;S PRETTY MUCH ALWAYS AND WE
GET CITY ATTORNEY&apos;S COMMENTS SO
PLEASE DO BE PREPARED FOR SAME
.
&gt;&gt; YES I WILL.
THANK YOU.
ARE WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT, GENERAL TIME, PUBLIC
COMMENT, GENERAL TIME AS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL IN
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT GENERAL TIME
ONE NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE.
SPEAKERS WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK
WHETHER AT HOME OR HERE IN THE
CHAMBERS.
OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC
COMMENT
?
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING MR. MAYOR.
COUNCIL ERIC LIPSON HERE.
I HAVE TO SAY I LOVE ANN ARBOR.
THE CITY HAS NURTURED ME AND MY
FAMILY.
MY DAUGHTER IS ALIVE TODAY
BECAUSE WE LIVE TEN MINUTES
FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
HOSPITAL SO WE HAVE A GREAT
AMOUNT OF GRATITUDE FOR LIVING
HERE WHERE WE DO SO IT SADDENS
ME ENORMOUSLY WHEN I WATCH THE
CHAOS AND CHURN AND DYSFUNCTION
THAT GOES ON AT COUNCIL.
WE&apos;RE ON OUR THIRD CITY MANAGER
GOING ON OUR THIRD H.R.
DIRECTOR.
&gt;&gt; THIS SADDENS ME AND EVEN
MORE SO THAN THAT IS THE ISSUE
WHICH HAS BEEN RAISED BY
COUNCILOR GRISWOLD ABOUT THE
ISSUE OF CORRUPTION,
TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL
DESCRIBES CORRUPTION BY SAYING
THIS CORRUPTION CAN TAKE MANY
FORMS AND CAN INCLUDE BEHAVIORS
LIKE PUBLIC SERVANTS DEMANDING
OR TAKING FAVORS OR MONEY IN
EXCHANGE FOR SERVICES,
POLITICIANS MISUSING PUNIT
PUBLIC MONEY OR GRANTING PUBLIC
JOBS OR CONTRACTS TO THEIR
SPONSORS, FRIENDS AND FAMILIES
.
SO WHERE DOES THIS COME UP THEN
TODAY AGAIN WE&apos;RE BACK TO THE
BAILEY CONTRACTING AND
MACKENZIE CONTRACTING WHERE THE
ISSUE OF SAFETY WAS RAISED AS A
RED HERRING BECAUSE WHEN IT
TURNED OUT THAT THE PREFERRED
CONTRACTOR IN FACT DID NOT HAD
NOT REVEALED ITS SAFETY
VIOLATIONS, THAT THAT DID NOT
DISQUALIFY IT AS IT WOULD HAVE
IN ALMOST ANY OTHER
CIRCUMSTANCE BECAUSE THEN YOU
REWARD THAT RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; YOU REWARD PEOPLE NOT
DISCLOSING THEIR SAFETY
VIOLATION WHICH OCCURRED BY THE
WAY IN 2000 NINETEEN.
&gt;&gt; SO IT WASN&apos;T LIKE IT WAS A
LONG TIME AGO.
I HAVE TO SAY THAT BEST VALUE
WHICH WAS SOLD AS A BILL
OF GOODS TO THE VOTERS OF ANN
ARBOR IS AN INVITATION TO
CORRUPTION AS WAS IMMEDIATELY
HARD TO BELIEVE HOW QUICKLY IT
HAPPENED BECAUSE THERE THE OLD
STANDARD LOWEST RESPONSIBLE
BIDDER IS A STANDARD LOW
RESPONSIBLE BEST VALUE IS
COMPLETELY UNDEFINED AND LET ME
SHOW YOU ONE MORE THING IN
DECEMBER SEVENTEENTH OF TWENTY
TWENTY ONE THE LABORER&apos;S UNION
OF LANSING MADE A TEN THOUSAND
DOLLAR CONTRIBUTION TO THE
MAYOR&apos;S CAMPAIGN IN FEBRUARY.
THE UNION CONTRACTOR WHO IS
SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS MORE
EXPENSIVE THAN THE OTHER
QUALIFIED CONTRACTOR WAS GIVEN
A THE JOB COST THE TAXPAYERS
SIXTY THOUSAND.
THAT WAS A PRETTY GOOD DEAL.
TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS AND IT
COST US SIXTY.
&gt;&gt; SO THINK ABOUT THAT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE THE HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK IN PUBLIC
COMMENT.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE ON
WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK A PUBLIC COMMENT
?
YES MAYOR I HAVE ADAM JASCO
RIGHT YOURSELF.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
YES.
HI THIS IS AFTER COVERAGE FROM
THE FIRST QUARTER A WHILE AGO I
DISCUSSED THE WIDENING OF THE
EAST MEDICAL CENTER DRIVE
BRIDGE.
A NUMBER OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS
EXPRESSED DISAPPOINTMENT THAT
WE WERE WIDENING THE BRIDGE FOR
CARS, ADDED AN ADDITIONAL LANE
WITHOUT MAKING ADEQUATE
ACCOMMODATIONS FOR OTHER USERS
OF THE BRIDGE.
I BELIEVE WE GOT A SORT
OF GRUDGING ACCEPTANCE WITH THE
UNDERSTANDING THAT WHILE THE
CROSS SECTION WAS NOT GOING TO
BE GREAT FOR PEOPLE BIKING OR
PEOPLE WALKING, WE WOULD AT
LEAST GET A SEPARATED PATHWAY
UNDERNEATH THE BRIDGE SO THAT
SOME USERS WOULD BE ABLE TO
AVOID CROSSING THE WIDENED
ROADWAY.
TODAY, HOWEVER, I HAPPENED TO
READ THROUGH ADMINISTRATOR
ADMINISTRATOR HOENESS MEMO TO
COUNCIL ABOUT SOME POSSIBLE
WAYS TO SPEND THE MARIJUANA
EXCISE MONEY.
I WAS TROUBLED TO READ THE
FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH WHICH I&apos;D
LIKE TO CALL YOUR ATTENTION TO
ON PAGE TWO PATHWAY UNDER E
MEDICAL CENTER DRIVE COUNCIL
DIRECTED STAFF TO DESIGN THE
PATH AND TO DEVELOP A COST
ESTIMATE WHICH IS IN PROCESS.
HOWEVER THERE IS NO FUNDING
SOURCE IDENTIFIED SHOULD IT
MAKE ITS WAY TO CONSTRUCTION
DOWN SIDE THERE IS A VERY GOOD
CHANCE THAT M DOT COULD KILL
THIS PROJECT AS IT APPEARS THAT
SPACE FOR THE PATHWAY WOULD
ENCROACH ON THE RAILROAD RIGHT
OF WAY.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LIKE TO UNDERSTAND
HOW WE MOVE FORWARD FROM THAT.
THIS PROJECT DOES INDEED GET
QUOTE KILLED.
ARE WE IN A SITUATION WHERE WE
COULD LOSE THE CONCESSION OF A
PATHWAY UNDER THE BRIDGE WHILE
STILL SEEING THE ROADWAY
WIDENED?
LANE ADDED FOUR CARS AND THE
WESTERN SIDEWALK NARROWED.
IF SO, THAT&apos;S PRETTY
DISAPPOINTING AND I HOPE WE CAN
FIND A WAY TO ADDRESS THIS
PROBLEM.
I HOPE WE CAN FIND A CREATIVE
SOLUTION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
CALL OVER THE PHONE NUMBER AND
AGAIN NINE THREE SIX CRESTAR
SIX MUTE YOUR PHONE.
HELLO.
I JUST WANTED TO TALK TO A
LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT THE
STARBUCKS UNIONIZING EFFORTS
AND IF YOU HAVEN&apos;T HEARD THE
LOCATION AT MAIN AND LIBERTY
VIA ONE OF THEIR EMPLOYEES FOR
UNIONIZING, IT&apos;S PART OF A
LARGER MOVEMENT THAT THAT ALSO
I HEARD OUR REPRESENTATIVES USE
THE BRABY GIVE IT TALKED ABOUT
WHEN HE WAS EMPLOYED BY THE
AMANAH FOR THAT EVEN THOUGH THE
CITY PAYS CONTRACTORS FIFTEEN
DOLLARS AN HOUR, NOT EVERYBODY
EMPLOYED BY THE CITY
NECESSARILY DOES AND I JUST
WANT YOU TO KEEP ALL THE
UNIONIZING EFFORTS IN THE LABOR
MOVEMENT IN MIND WHEN YOU DO
REVIEW EMPLOYEE WAGES AND
BENEFITS.
I ALSO HEARD THAT AGAIN I DON&apos;T
KNOW THE PRACTICE THAT SOME
OF THE EMPLOYEES WERE LET GO
FOR A COUPLE OF MONTHS BUT THEY
NEED TO SO WE WOULD HAVE TO
GIVE THEM A BENEFIT.
SO YEAH, I HOPE THAT WE CAN
HAVE ALL EMPLOYEES THAT ARE
SITTING ON A WITH LOCAL WAGE
THEY MAY BE ABLE TO ACTUALLY
LIVE IN OUR AREA IF THEY CHOOSE
AND YEAH I HAVE FOR TODAY THANK
YOU.
THANK YOU
CARLA WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER AND AGAIN FOR SIX FOR
YOU HAVE A COMMENT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH HI LINDA AKAROA I&apos;M
ROBERT.
JUST TO EXPRESS MY APPRECIATION
FOR MR. ALONI AND TO SAY HOW
HAPPY I AM TO SEE THE
ADMINISTRATOR IN THE SHORT TIME
HE&apos;S BEEN HERE HE SEEMS TO HAVE
REALLY LOOKED AT FRESH EYES AND
IDENTIFIED SO MANY LONG
STANDING PROBLEMS WE&apos;VE HAD AND
COME UP WITH SOLUTIONS IN
PARTICULAR THE BUDGET
PRESENTATION TONIGHT I WANT TO
THANK YOU FOR PUTTING IN SEVEN
HUNDRED THOUSAND FOR THE MASTER
PLAN THAT WAS KIND OF PUT ON
HOLD PRE PANDEMIC AND IT&apos;S
REALLY AS HE SAID, IT&apos;S
WOEFULLY OUT OF DATE AND IT&apos;S A
STATE REQUIREMENT.
SO WE REALLY NEED TO GET GOING
ON THAT SO THANK HIM FOR IT.
I WANT TO THANK HIM FOR PUTTING
IT IN THE BUDGET AND ACTUALLY
POINTING IT POINTING IT OUT
TONIGHT IN HIS FUTURE FOCUS THE
HIS FUTURE SLIDE HE MENTIONED
SEVERAL THINGS THAT HAVE BEEN
PROBLEMS AND HE WANTS TO FOCUS
ON GOING FORWARD.
AMONG THEM THE DOWNTOWN AND
AMONG THE PROBLEMS DOWNTOWN IS
THAT WE NEED PUBLIC RESTROOMS.
I COULDN&apos;T AGREE MORE.
I&apos;M SO GRATEFUL THAT HE&apos;S
POINTING THAT OUT.
AQUITAINE CONCLUSION I DON&apos;T
KNOW IF YOU DETECTED THAT.
WE REALLY DO GIVE LIP SERVICE
TO THAT BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW IF HE
FIGURED OUT.
BUT I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S WHAT
WE&apos;VE BEEN DOING AND I&apos;M
HOPEFULLY HOPEFULLY WE CAN GET
GOING ON SOME MEANINGFUL EQUITY
AND INCLUSION.
AND THEN FINALLY HE CALLED OUR
ENGAGEMENT AND I DON&apos;T KNOW IF
HE WAS IMPLYING THAT MAYBE HE
DOESN&apos;T THINK WE DO WELL BUT
STATEMENT WE USED TO BUT I
DON&apos;T THINK WE HAVE IN MANY,
MANY YEARS AND AND WE NEED TO
FIND REALLY, REALLY GRATEFUL
THAT HE POINTED THAT OUT.
AND I KNOW SOMETIMES THAT TAKES
A LITTLE EXTRA MONEY.
HE SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED IT
NEEDS TO BE WIDE RANGING AND
ROBUST, WIDE RANGING.
THESE ARE SECTORS OF OUR
COMMUNITY AND I RECALL WHEN THE
MASTER PLAN WAS IN PROCESS THE
COMMITTEE WAS IN PROCESS
LOOKING FOR CONTRACT TO HELP
HELP SHEPHERD IT ALONG.
SOME PEOPLE WERE SAYING THAT
ONLY THE MOST IMPORTANT
STAKEHOLDERS NEED TO BE
INCLUDED NOT EVERYBODY IN THE
COMMUNITY AND THAT IS JUST
WRONG.
SO THANK YOU, MR. ROMNEY FOR
POINTING OUT THAT WE HAVE BEGUN
TO FAIL IN THAT AND THAT WE CAN
DO BETTER AND I HOPE YOU CAN
HELP US TO DO BETTER.
THANK YOU.
OH, THANKS ALSO FOR BRINGING UP
THE ISSUE BECAUSE THAT WE&apos;VE
BEEN TALKING TO COUNSEL ABOUT
THAT FOR DECADES AND THEY
HAVEN&apos;T LISTENED AND I DON&apos;T
KNOW WHY A FEW MEETINGS AGO
THEY WERE JUST SO MANY COUNCIL
MEMBERS ECONOMIC EXPERTS SHOCK
WHEN STAFF FINALLY GAVE THEM
THE STATISTICS ON THE CONDITION
OF OUR ROAD.
THEY WERE SHOCKED THAT SO MANY
WERE FAILING WHEN WE&apos;VE BEEN
BUILDING FOR YEARS.
SO ANYWAY, YOU HEARD THAT THAT
WAS WHEN YOU FIRST CAME AND YOU
CAME UP WITH THIS INCREDIBLE
IDEA.
I WOULD HAVE THOUGHT IT BUT
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
MAYBE WE&apos;LL SEE SOME COMMENT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
COLOR WITH THE PHONE NUMBER AND
AGAIN FIVE FIVE SIX TO HAVE A
COMMENT OUR STAR SIX TIME ON
YOUR PHONE.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
THIS IS REAL KEY FROM THE FORD
.
I JUST WANTED TO CALL TO MAKE A
BRIEF COMMENT ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT HAS GONE UP AND DOWN IN
TERMS OF AWARENESS IN THE
COMMUNITY AND THAT&apos;S THE
SALVATOR REPORTS AND THE
TREATMENT OF THOSE REPORTS IS
SORT OF THE EMPEROR&apos;S NEW
CLOTHES BY MANY OF YOU ON
COUNCIL AND THIS IS A SORT
OF DRAWING THE ATTENTION OF OUR
OUR NEW CITY ATTORNEY TO THIS
ISSUE BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT GOING
AWAY GIVEN THE MR. CRAWFORD&apos;S
COUNCIL&apos;S RECENT CEASE AND
DESIST LETTER TO THIS COUNCIL
ABOUT THE COMMENTS THAT HAVE
BEEN MADE REGARDING THAT ISSUE
.
THESE REPORTS WERE FLAWED.
THE FIRST ONE WAS FLAWED.
THE SECOND ONE WAS WORSE AND I
THINK IT IT WOULD BE VERY
DIFFICULT TO READ MR.
CRAWFORD&apos;S COUNSEL, MR. MARCU
SOCIAL BIG LAW FIRM WITH MUCH
EXPERIENCE AND IN TURN WILL
INVESTIGATE ACTIONS AND AND
DISCRIMINATION LITIGATION HE
FOUND WAY, WAY MORE FLAWS THAN
I DID IN MY EARLIER CRITIQUES
BECAUSE HE HAD THE BENEFIT
OF BEING ABLE TO TALK TO MR.
CRAWFORD ABOUT THE INSIDE VIEW
OF MR. CRAWFORD&apos;S RECORD ETC.
AND I WOULD ENCOURAGE YOU TO
STOP THE DENIAL AND THE
EMPEROR&apos;S NEW CLOTHES ASPECT
OF IT AND TAKE A REAL HARD LOOK
AT WHAT HAPPENED IN THOSE
REPORTS AND DEAL WITH IT IN AN
OBJECTIVE WAY.
AND I HOPE OUR NEW CITY
ATTORNEY WILL BE OPEN TO THAT
APPROACH BECAUSE YOU REALLY
SHOULDN&apos;T BE BEHAVING IN THE
WAY THAT YOU HAVE IN THE PAST
ABOUT THAT REPORT.
AND IT&apos;S INTERESTING WHEN WHEN
EARLIER I MADE THAT CRITIQUE
AND I WAS CALLED UNINFORMED AND
ENGAGING IN POLITICAL THEATER
ETC. NOW YOU HAVE A FORMER CITY
ATTORNEY SAYING SOME OF THE
SAME THINGS ABOUT THAT REPORT
AND NOW YOU HAVE A VERY
EXPERI SPECIALIST IN THAT
AREA OF THE LAW SAYING MANY
OF THE SAME THINGS AND EVEN
MORE BITING CRITICISM YOU
REALLY OUGHT TO DEAL WITH IT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND GOOD
NIGHT.
THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
I DON&apos;T SEE ANY OTHER CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEE NO
PUBLIC COMMENT AND HIS CLOTHES
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL AND COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
JUST REAL BRIEFLY, WE&apos;VE WE&apos;VE
HAD A CONVERSATION ABOUT THE
PUBLIC BATHROOMS FLOATING
AROUND FOR A WHILE AND I JUST
WANT TO SHARE WITH MY
COLLEAGUES HERE THAT I PRIOR TO
THE PUDI REZONING COMING FOR
THE WILLOTT THAT I HAD
EXTENSIVE CONVERSATIONS WITH
MISS HALL WHO JENNIFER HALL
ABOUT WHAT NEEDED TO BE ON THAT
SITE AND WELL IT DIDN&apos;T MAKE IT
IN WRITING.
I DIDN&apos;T WANT TO UPSCALE WHAT
WAS HAPPENING THAT NIGHT BY
OPENING UP AND AMENDING IT OR
WHATEVER BUT SHE HAD HER AND I
DISCUSSED SEVERAL THINGS.
THE MOST IMPORTANT THING IN MY
MIND IT WAS TO TRY AND REDUCE
THE DEBT ON THAT SIDE SO WE
WOULDN&apos;T HAVE TO GO LOOKING FOR
DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS
NECESSARILY AND THAT DIDN&apos;T
HAPPEN WITH THE ARPA FUNDING.
UNFORTUNATELY.
&gt;&gt; BUT SHE DID SAY THAT I WON&apos;T
PUT WORDS IN HER MOUTH BUT SHE
WANTS TO PUT PUBLIC RESTROOMS
IN THAT FACILITY AND I BELIEVE
THAT EVERY NEW FACILITY THAT
WE&apos;RE BUILDING THAT HAS A
GROUND FLOOR ACCESS THAT&apos;S IN A
PLACE THAT COULD STAND TO HAVE
PUBLIC RESTROOMS LIKE THE WHY
LOT NEXT TO THE TRANSPORTATION
HUB LIKE THE POTENTIALLY THE
KOREATOWN AREA THAT THESE
BUILDINGS ONCE WE&apos;RE BUILDING
THEM AND IF THEY DO HAVE
OVERSIGHT IN THESE BUILDINGS
WHICH THEY WILL THAT THOSE ARE
THE PERFECT OPPORTUNITIES TO
PUT GROUND FLOOR PUBLIC
RESTROOMS IN THERE.
AND HE AGREED WITH THAT NOTION.
AND SO I HOPE THAT THAT WILL BE
REMEMBERED OR IF IT NEEDS TO BE
ADDED IN WRITING TO THAT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR THE
WILLOTT AND WE SHOULD BECAUSE
IT&apos;S A IT&apos;S A GREAT OPPORTUNITY
WHEN WE&apos;RE BUILDING NEW
BUILDING BUILD SOME PUBLIC
RESTROOMS IN THERE TOO.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE THAT
COMMENT THAT IT&apos;S SOMETHING
THAT&apos;S BEEN TALKED ABOUT AND
IT&apos;S A GOOD IDEA.
IT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT&apos;S NEEDED.
I MEAN EVEN LIKE WHEN I WAS IN
GRAND RAPIDS A COUPLE MONTHS
AGO, THEY HAVE KIND OF GOOD
LOOKING TEMPORARY RESTROOMS IN
VARIOUS NEIGHBORHOODS.
&gt;&gt; THEY&apos;RE PUBLIC RESTROOMS AND
SO OTHER COMMUNITIES DO WHAT WE
CAN DO IT AND I THINK THE
BUILDING NEW BUILDINGS IS A
GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO DO THAT OR
BUILD IT RIGHT ONCE THE FIRST
TIME.
&gt;&gt; SO I JUST WANT TO SHARE THAT
WITH YOU FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL COUNCILOR BRIGS,
THANKS.
THERE WAS A COMMENT THAT WAS
MADE EARLIER THIS EVENING THAT
I DIDN&apos;T WANT TO RAISE THIS
ISSUE DURING THIS SORT
OF AGENDA DISCUSSION.
BUT I THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT THAT
WE AS A BODY REMEMBER THAT
ALCOHOL IS A DISEASE AND THAT
IN SEPTEMBER WE THE MAYOR
DECLARED ALONG WITH THE REST
OF THE NATION THAT SEPTEMBER IS
NATIONAL RECOVERY MONTH.
BUT THAT DOESN&apos;T MEAN THAT WE
CAN&apos;T BE COGNIZANT THAT THERE
ARE FOLKS IN RECOVERY IN OUR
COMMUNITY RIGHT NOW WHO NEED
OUR SUPPORT AND SORT
OF DISPARAGING COMMENTS AROUND
ALCOHOLISM IS PROBABLY NOT THE
BEST WAY TO TO HAVE A
RECOVERY SORT OF SUPPORTIVE
COMMUNITY JUST A FEW KIND
OF WHEREAS POINTS FROM THAT
THAT PROCLAMATION FROM
SEPTEMBER WHEREAS RECOVERY FROM
ADDICTION FLOURISHES IN THE
SUPPORT OF RECOVERY FRIENDLY
COMMUNITY AND ARBOR&apos;S
RECOVERY FRIENDLY COMMUNITY IS
HOME TO A VIBRANT, DIVERSE AND
THRIVING RECOVERY COMMUNITY.
IT&apos;S MAYBE USEFUL FOR FOLKS TO
TO GO BACK AND LOOK AT THAT.
I KNOW THAT MANY OF US HAVE
LIKELY HAD FAMILY MEMBERS OR
FRIENDS WHO HAVE SUFFERED FROM
ADDICTION OR LOST THOSE.
SO I THINK WE SHOULD BE CAREFUL
ABOUT THE WORDS THAT WE USE AT
THIS TABLE FOR THE DISCUSSION
PART OF ME FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
COUNCILPERSON WE WERE REFERRED
SOME WORK BY TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION AND PASSED ON
REGARDING IN OUR AIR TRAFFIC
TRANSPARENCY.
I JUST WANTED TO NOTE THE WORK
THAT CAME IN FROM BOTH
COMMISSIONS AND THE THE HARD
WORK THAT THEY WENT THE THAT
OUR COMMISSIONERS CONTRIBUTED
TO TO THESE EFFORTS.
&gt;&gt; SO I HOPE MY COLLEAGUES WILL
TAKE A LOOK AT THAT.
IT&apos;S IN LINE WITH WHAT&apos;S GOING
ON AT THE COUNTY.
I&apos;M PART OF A GROUP CALLED THE
WASHINGTON EQUITY PARTNERSHIP
GROUP.
THIS IS A PROJECT THAT&apos;S FUNDED
BY THE VERA INSTITUTE.
WE&apos;RE TAKING A LOOK AT CRIMINAL
JUSTICE DATA AND HOW WE CAN
IDENTIFY RACIAL DISPARITIES IN
THE JUSTICE SYSTEM IN THE
JUVENILE AND ADULT JUSTICE
SYSTEM AND THAT&apos;S BEING CHAIRED
BY ELMER WHEELER SMITH.
SO I&apos;M EXCITED TO SEE THAT THIS
WORK REMAINS ON THE CITY AND
COUNTY LEVEL.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON, THANK
.
I JUST WANTED TO COMMENT THAT I
TALKED COUNCIL MEMBER RAMOGI
SHORTLY BEFORE THIS MEETING ON
MY WAY OVER HERE AND HE HE
COMMENTED TO ME THAT HE REALLY
WAS SO SORRY TO BE MISSING THIS
MEETING AND HE HE EXPRESSED
CONCERNS ABOUT THE FACT THAT WE
HAD HONORED GUESTS HERE TO TALK
ABOUT ARAB AMERICAN HERITAGE
MONTH PROCLAMATION AND HE WAS
VERY SORRY NOT TO BE HERE TO BE
MORE WELCOMING BECAUSE OF WHAT
AN HONOR IT WAS FOR HIM AS AN
ARAB-AMERICAN ON THIS BODY TO
CELEBRATE THAT PROCLAMATION.
AND I I JUST WANTED TO COMMENT
ON HIS HIS ABSENCE AND THE FACT
THAT HE WAS SO SORRY TO MISS
THIS MEETING.
AND I ALSO WANTED TO COMMENT
OF ALL THE MEETINGS HAMAS THE
ONE THAT WE WERE GOING TO
BEFORE NINE 30 I MEAN HE GOT TO
PICKED ONE THAT WENT AT LEAST
ONE ANYWAY.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S ALL I WANTED TO
SAY.
THANK YOU FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL MOTION TO ADJOURN
PLEASE MOVE BY DENHA SECOND MY
COUNCIL OUR DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POES WE ADJOURNED THE